---
title: Class meeting
---
<!-- 6.1 and 6.2 (week of 18 Sep) - no class, P1 draft conferences -->

Please edit this page and add your name to reserve a conference time. Do not change anyone else's time.

Conferences will be 15 min each, with a 5 min break between conferences for me to review the proposal for the following conference.

Please attend the conference here via Zoom: <https://nus-sg.zoom.us/j/2503945161>

Review the "Conferences" conference guidelines [add link]</a>.

If you have technical difficulties at the time of the conference, email me.

After a conference where students recognize some problems with their draft, it is common for students to think that they should change their focus or topic. This is usually a mistake. It may seem that another topic will work better, but after switching, student often realize (perhaps after another conference) that the new topic has problems as well, and then they have lost precious time. So, it is ok for you to focus on just one of the source arguments discussed in your draft, but don't change to focus on new parts of your source.

Let me make this clear: _You are not allowed to focus on a new section or source argument (i.e. one not discussed in your draft) without my approval_

 Of course, I expect you to revise and refine your specific thesis and specific arguments as part of the writing process, so no need to get approval for smaller changes. If you really want to shift to discussing a new section or argument, make a request (include and explain the new topic/proposal) and get confirmation in writing (email) that I approve the change.

Tue 20 Feb

- 1 - 9:00 AM :
- 2 - 9:20 AM :
- 3 - 9:40 AM :
- 4 - 10:00 AM :
- 5 - 10:20 AM :
- 6 - 10:40 AM :
- 7 - 11:00 AM :
- 8 - 11:20 AM :
- 9 - 11:40 AM :
- Break
- 10 - 1:00 PM :
- 11 - 1:20 PM :
- 12 - 1:40 PM :
