

1

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vol.:(0123456789)
 Technology, Knowledge and Learning (2022) 27:405-427 
 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10758-021-09541-2 
 1 3 
 ORIGINAL RESEARCH 
 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: 
 A Systematic Review on the Focuses and the Types 
 of Student‑Related Analytics Data 
 Si Na Kew1 · Zaidatun Tasir2 
 Accepted: 22 June 2021 / Published online: 30 June 2021
 © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2021
 Abstract 
 The application of learning analytics in an online learning environment is increasing among
 researchers in educational fields because it can assist in providing standard and measur-
 able decision making about student success. In this regard, there is a need for the online
 learning society and practitioners to be informed about how learning analytics is applied
 in the online learning environment. Therefore, this systematic review article aims to offer
 the reader essential details regarding the practical usage of learning analytics techniques
 in online learning environments to improve the quality of teaching and learning practices.
 The focal point of this review is threefold: to ascertain the focus of learning analytics
 research in online learning environments and its significant results, to identify the types
 of student-related analytics data in online learning environments and the issues related to
 analytics data, and to inform about the extent of interventions that have been applied in
 the learning analytics context, if any. Four procedures suggested by PRISMA were applied
 when conducting a systematic review. A total of 34 articles were chosen according to the
 review selection guideline by searching through online databases, including ACM Digital
 Library, LearnTechLib, ERIC, International Forum of Educational Technology & Soci-
 ety, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, Scopus, Society for Learning Analytics Research, and
 SpringerLink. The search keywords used were learning analytics data and online learning,
 learning analytics data and learning analytics intervention. The results were analysed based
 on the three focuses mentioned earlier and were interpreted accordingly. It is found that the
 applied focus of learning analytics is more oriented towards monitoring/analysis and pre-
 diction/intervention, and the commonly used types of student-analytics data are learning
 behaviour data and learning level data. Additionally, the intervention is still in the process
 of being developed. Lastly, the directions for future studies and limitations are also pro-
 vided so as to further develop this emerging research area, and the findings can be a good
 reference point for other researchers. 
 Keywords Learning analytics · Online learning environment · Student-related analytics
 data · Intervention · Educational data mining 
 * 
 Si Na Kew 
 snkew@utm.my 
 Extended author information available on the last page of the article



2

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 406 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 1 Introduction 
 Learning analytics (LA) have been applied in many studies related to the educational tech-
 nology field. This is due to the potential it holds in uncovering meaningful information
 on student behaviour in online learning environments, which in turn, reflects the influence
 of technology and learning design on the teaching and learning process. LA is used for
 the detection of problematic learning behaviours and affective states in students in online
 learning (Verbert et al., 2012; Kew & Tasir, 2017a, 2017b). One of the main functions
 of LA is to monitor the learning performance of students and identify potential learning
 problems early through logfile analysis so that interventions can be provided to recognize
 and support students at risk (EDUCAUSE 2010; Johnson et al., 2011). These logfiles in
 Learning Management System are generated by students when interacting in online activi-
 ties, and with the use of LA, more hidden information about students in online learning
 can be discovered. Hence, it plays a significant role in online learning in order to identify
 problems with online learning and improve the learning environment. However, it is still a
 relatively new research area. During the 1st International Conference on Learning Analyt-
 ics and Knowledge (LAK'11), LA was defined as "the measurement, collection, analysis
 and reporting of data about learners and their contexts, for purposes of understanding and
 optimizing learning and environments in which it occurs" (Long & Siemens, 2011, p.34).
 In addition, Cooper (2012, p.3) described analytics as "the process of developing action-
 able insights through problem definition and the application of statistical models and
 analysis against existing and/or simulated future data". Although these definitions differ to
 some extent, they basically highlight the transactional information of particular data where
 learning progress, achievement, engagement, and other different aspects of learning can be
 measured, and the useful outcomes are predicted. Besides predicting, LA also allows the
 provision of dynamic feedback for a personalized learning experience and better interven-
 tion, since the action is the major aim of the analytics process.
 The earliest analytics studies were applied in giant firms like Amazon, Google, and so
 on to help them make sense of their customers' data for the purpose of generating a higher
 business revenue. The analytics applied to these firms, however, require a complex tech-
 nical process, and fully adopting the exact process in the educational field might not be
 applicable to academia (Gunn, 2014). The big data and analytics progressively have more
 implications in the education aspect (Seufert et al., 2019). This is because academicians
 are mostly interested in knowing and understanding meaningful traces of students' activity
 in online environments that can support the learning processes. Within this scope of inter-
 est, a great number of studies related to tracking and analysing the data from the online
 environment logs have started to emerge (Goldstein & Katz, 2005; Howell et al., 2018a,
 2018b). The same is true for the development of dashboard applications that can visualize
 LA results and intervene automatically in the learning process whenever necessary. Some
 analytics dashboards are very system specific, while others are developed to be used across
 learning platforms (Arnold & Pistilli, 2012; Ferguson, 2012; Gunn, 2014; Norris & Baer,
 2013). 
 While research on LA has continued to provide the basis for the field (West et al.,
 2018), it is often difficult to understand and interpret the bulk of the data collected, and
 not much is known about how students play a part in providing as well as attending to
 the messages of others in an online discussion environment (Wise et al., 2013). Further-
 more, the designs of developed dashboards are far less effective and frequently lead to mis-
 interpretation (Gasevic et al., 2015). Often, certain representations of student activity in



3

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 407 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 an online environment cannot be captured and presented efficiently (Corrin & de Barba,
 2014). The types of data collected sometimes do not reflect clearly the pedagogical objec-
 tives that should be attained. When conducting research on LA, it is always important to
 link the pedagogical objectives with the types of data captured and assessed so as to pro-
 vide data that are accessible to academic staff; thus, they are able to understand holistically
 about student interactions in online learning environments. Hence, this review article aims
 to offer the reader crucial details regarding the practical usage of LA techniques in online
 learning environments in order to improve the quality of teaching and learning practices.
 The focal point of this review is threefold: (1) to ascertain about the focus of LA research
 in online learning environments and its significant results, (2) to identify types of student-
 related analytics data in online learning environments and the issues related to analytics
 data, and (3) to inform about the extent of interventions that have been applied so far in
 online learning environments, if any. 
 2 Literature Review on Learning Analytics 
 LA is a relatively new field that has developed to assist in teaching and learning practices.
 Van Harmelen and Workman (2012) summarized the main promising uses of LA in the
 educational field, which are to identify at-risk students and provide them with positive
 interventions for retention improvement; to give recommendations to students regarding
 reading materials and learning tasks; to identify the demand for, and assess the outcomes
 of, pedagogic enhancements; to modify course offerings; to identify the teachers who per-
 form well or who require assistance with their teaching methods; and to aid in the student
 recruitment process. 
 Chatti et al. (2012) also proposed a reference model for LA based on four dimensions,
 specifically, (i) what (e.g., data, environments and context), (ii) why (e.g., objectives), (iii)
 how (e.g., techniques/methods) and (iv) who (e.g., stakeholders), which has provided a
 clear overview of LA and its relevant concepts. In particular, the objectives of LA should
 be highlighted, as it can help stakeholders make effective decisions on teaching according
 to their learning focus. These LA objectives are listed in Table 1. Chatti et al. also reported
 that intelligent tutoring and adaptation was identified as the most frequently applied focus
 on LA objectives, followed by monitoring and analysis, assessment and feedback, predic-
 tion and intervention, and lastly, personalization and recommendation; nonetheless, no
 reflection of these was found in the research. 
 Moreover, for an in-depth understanding of how LA can maximize teaching and learn-
 ing practices, the types of students' learning data play a role to help educators determine
 what data generated by students should be examined and analysed. In the research con-
 ducted by Wu et al. (2015), learners' learning status data are classified into four dimen-
 sions, as seen in Table 2. 
 The first type of data is learning behaviour data, where the data are tracked from
 between learners and the learning environment. The second type is learning emotional data
 in which the data are collected from the psychology and physiology of the learners in their
 online learning. Learning network data are the third type, where the data are harvested
 from the interaction of the learners with others in the online learning. Lastly, learning level
 data are defined as the data collected from the examination or the results achieved by the
 students. 



4

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 408 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 Furthermore, data science techniques have gradually become more visible in differ-
 ent fields, which can assist instructors and different stakeholders to make evidence-based
 decisions. One of the examples is that it is used to analyse the information derived from
 student interactions with games to enhance their interest in learning. In this aspect, dif-
 ferent systematic reviews on LA have been conducted. For instances, Alonso-Fernández
 et al. (2019) had conducted a systematic literature review on applications of data science to
 game LA data and LA data from serious games. The results indicated that LA can be used
 to analyse the data to precisely predict the impact from an educational perspective. Simi-
 larly, another systematic review paper was conducted by Baiocchi (2019) who reviewed
 on the LA models and methods which are implemented to enhance the education on youth
 character, while Mangaroska and Giannakos (2018) carried out a systematic review on the
 empirical evidence on LA for learning design. Kew and Tasir (2017a, 2017b), on the other
 hand, reviewed identifying at-risk students in online learning by analysing learning behav-
 iour through LA. Correspondingly, Schwendimann (2016) and Matcha et al (2019) car-
 ried out a systematic literature review of LA dashboards, while Wong (2020) and Kew and
 Tasir (2017a, 2017b) also conducted a systematic review on LA intervention. Nonetheless,
 among these review studies, limited studies were conducted to examine student-related
 Table 1 Objectives of LA in Learning Analytics Reference Model (Chatti et al., 2012)
 Objectives Descriptions 
 Monitoring/analysis Tracking students' activities and generating reports to support decision
 making. Also related to the evaluation of the learning process by the
 teacher to improve the learning environment. Examining and analysing
 how the students use a learning system can assist teachers in detecting
 patterns and making decisions on the future design of learning activi-
 ties 
 Prediction/intervention Prediction is concerned with developing a model to predict the knowl-
 edge and future performance of students, which can then be used to
 develop an intervention, by suggesting actions that should be taken to
 help students who may need additional assistance
 Tutoring/mentoring In tutoring processes, the focus is on the teaching process (control of
 tutor). The focus of mentoring processes, meanwhile, is on the learning
 process of students 
 Assessment/feedback It is concerned with providing the feedback to both students and teachers
 based on data about the students' interests and the learning context,
 supporting the assessment of the improved usefulness and efficiency of
 the learning process 
 Adaptation Adaptation is triggered by the teacher/tutoring system or educational
 institution. It is concerned with guiding the students to perform the
 next move by adaptively organizing and establishing instructional
 activities and learning resources based on the needs of individual
 students 
 Personalization/recommendation Personalization is concerned with assisting students to decide on their
 own learning and to continuously shape their own PLEs to achieve
 their learning goals. Meanwhile, the recommender system plays a role
 in fostering self-directed learning by recommending explicit and tacit
 knowledge nodes based on the preferences and activities of other learn-
 ers with similar preferences 
 Reflection It is concerned with promoting reflection from data compared within the
 same course, or across classes or institutions to draw conclusions on
 the efficiency of their learning or teaching practices



5

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 409 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 T a bl e 2 
 St u d e nt s' 
 l e 
 ar ni 
 n g 
 st 
 at 
 u 
 s 
 d 
 at 
 a 
 ( 
 W 
 u 
 et 
 al., 
 2 
 0 
 1 
 5) 
 St u d e nt 
 s' 
 l e ar ni n g 
 st 
 at u s 
 d 
 at 
 a 
 D e s 
 cri 
 pti o n 
 E x a m pl e s 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 b e h a vi o 
 ur 
 d at a 
 D at a 
 a 
 m o n g l 
 e ar 
 n er s 
 a 
 n d l e ar 
 ni n g 
 pl 
 atf 
 or m 
 or l e 
 ar 
 ni n g r e s o ur c e s 
 L o g-i n ti m e, st u d y ti m e, n u m b er of cli c k s
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 e m oti o n 
 al 
 d at a 
 L e ar 
 n 
 er s' p s y 
 c h 
 ol o gi 
 c 
 al a n d p 
 h y si 
 ol o 
 gi 
 c al 
 d 
 at a d 
 uri n g l e ar ni n g pr o c e s s
 P o st (f e eli n g, e m oti o n, e x pr e s si o n et c.)
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 n et w or k 
 d 
 at a 
 L e ar 
 n 
 er s' i nt 
 er a 
 cti v e 
 d 
 at a i n cl 
 u di n 
 g n 
 et 
 w or 
 k 
 r el 
 ati 
 o n s hi p a n d di s c o ur s e
 c o 
 nt 
 e 
 nt 
 wit 
 h 
 ot 
 h 
 er 
 s 
 R e pl y, p o st 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 l e v el d at 
 a 
 L e ar 
 n 
 er s' e x a 
 m 
 or pr 
 o 
 gr a m s c 
 or e s 
 r e fl 
 e 
 cti n 
 g 
 l e ar 
 n 
 er s' l e ar ni n g st at u s
 dir e 
 ctl 
 y 
 Gr a d e 



6

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 410 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 analytics data in an online learning environment. Therefore, this research aims to shed light
 on this aspect and make a contribution to the LA field by providing more insightful view-
 points on LA. 
 3 Research Questions 
 The following addresses the three research questions that motivated the review process:
 Research Question 1: What are the focuses (objectives) of learning analytics that
 researchers have applied so far in online learning environments, and what are the sig-
 nificant results? 
 Research Question 2: What are the types of student-related analytics data in online
 learning environments and the issues related to analytics data?
 Research Question 3: To what extent have learning analytics interventions been
 applied, so far, in online learning environments, if any?
 4 Research Methodology 
 The systematic literature review was selected as a method to identify and review the practi-
 cal usage of LA techniques in online learning environments. Based on the methodology
 employed, it is appropriate to classify this article as a systematic review article since it
 follows the guidelines proposed by and the four-phase flow diagram of PRISMA (Moher
 et al., 2009), as shown in Fig. 1. The guidelines proposed have been commonly and exten-
 sively utilized by a range of previous studies, showing it is an effective method for review-
 ing the articles. As suggested by Moher et al., four procedures/stages have been applied
 when conducting the review: (1) identification, (2) screening, (3) eligibility, and (4)
 included. 
 For the first procedure, the literature (from journal and conference articles) was gathered
 by searching through several well-known online databases and publishers for academic
 research, including ACM Digital Library, LearnTechLib, ERIC, International Forum of
 Educational Technology & Society, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, Scopus, Society for
 Learning Analytics Research (SoLAR) and SpringerLink. The search keywords used were
 learning analytics data and online learning, learning analytics data and learning analytics
 intervention. The targeted period of the article search was restricted from 2012 to 2020,
 in which LA bodies of knowledge have grown in number. The article searching process is
 until April 2020. The search process resulted in a total of 1,198 articles being found. Next,
 a screening process of the title and abstract was carried out. This resulted in the elimination
 of 786 articles. 
 After that, from the remaining 412 articles, further analysis was carried out to select
 articles that met the following criteria: (1) empirical articles associated with LA tools
 and student-related analytics data, (2) empirical articles related to LA intervention,
 and (3) empirical articles on LA that have a clear presentation of methodology, set-
 tings, findings, discussion, and interpretation of results. For this review article, LA
 intervention is defined as the "frame of activity through which analytic tools, data, and
 reports are taken up and used", that articulates with the rest of the teaching and learn-
 ing practices taking place (Wise, 2014, p.203). Based on the definition, we decided



7

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 411 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 to exclude articles related to two well-known projects on analytics, namely, Course
 Signals and the PAR framework. Although these two projects are related to LA inter-
 vention, the focus is more on academic analytics compared to LA as defined by Wise
 (2014). After eliminating articles which did not fulfil the above-mentioned criteria,
 a total of 34 articles were selected and analysed further. Next, the selected articles
 were analysed and classified according to the focus of LA research, types of student-
 related analytics data, and LA intervention. The focuses of LA research were classified
 according to the Learning Analytics Reference Model (see Table 1) proposed by Chatti
 et al. (2012), whilst types of student-related analytics data were categorized based on
 the Learners' Learning Status Data (see Table 2), as proposed by Wu et al. (2015). The
 findings were then reported using the descriptive analysis technique.
 Finally, the presentation of the review based on the research questions was done. A
 critical review was synthesized by evaluating the empirical findings found in the 34
 articles. 
 Articles identified through ACM Digital Library, LearnTechLib, ERIC, International Forum of
 Educational Technology & Society, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, Scopus, Society for Learning
 Analytics Research (SoLAR) and SpringerLink databases from 2012 to 2020:
 n= 1198 
 S 
 cr e 
 e 
 ni n 
 g 
 I 
 n 
 cl 
 u 
 d 
 e 
 d 
 Eli 
 gi 
 bilit 
 y 
 n 
 o 
 ita 
 c 
 ifitn 
 e 
 d 
 I 
 Articles with titles, abstracts, and keywords 
 screed:n= 412 
 Full-text articles assessed for eligibility: 
 n= 36 
 Articles excluded because of a lack of
 relevant on learning analytics in online
 learning environment: n= 2
 Final articles for systematic review: 
 n= 34 
 Articles excluded because of
 redundant topic and a lack of relevant
 on learning analytics in online
 learning environment in the title,
 abstract, and keywords: n= 378
 Fig. 1 Flowchart outlining the protocol adopted in this systematic review based on the Preferred Report-
 ing Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) Four-Phase Flow Diagram (Moher et al.,
 2009) 



8

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 412 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 5 Results 
 This section is related to the findings of the review conducted on the selected 34 articles.
 All of the articles are based on empirical studies, which used either an exploratory, experi-
 mental, or evaluation research strategy. In terms of the learning settings of the studies (see
 Table 3), most studies are carried out in Learning Management System (n = 20). Other pre-
 ferred learning settings are Analytics Tool (n = 1); Computer-based Environment (n = 5),
 Virtual Learning Environment (n = 3), and Web-based Environment (n = 5).
 An interesting question regarding LA is about the area of concern for it to benefit edu-
 cation. It is crucial to conduct LA practices with the focus (objective) in mind. The article
 classification according to the focuses of LA is tabulated in Table 4. As shown in the table,
 the primary focus in LA is related to monitoring/analysis (48.33%), where the majority
 of the studies reviewed here had investigated this focus of LA. The next focus is on pre-
 diction/intervention (35%), followed by assessment/feedback (10%), reflection (3.33%),
 adaptation (1.67%), and personalization/recommendation (1.67%). There is no study with a
 focus on tutoring/mentoring, at least for the scope of this review.
 Another important aspect of LA is the types of student-related analytics data. It is
 important to be explicit about the types of data since the true potential of LA in teaching
 and learning is highly dependent on the accuracy of the data types that are chosen and
 analysed. 
 Based on Table 5, it can be seen that types of student-related analytics data mostly
 fall into the learning behaviour data category (37.04%), followed by learning level data
 (30.86%), learning network data (24.69%), and learning emotional data (7.41%). The
 authors have gathered data from the log files of a specific learning environment.
 Table 6 illustrates that learning behaviour data are found most frequently in the focus
 of monitoring/analysis, followed by learning level data. Learning behaviour data is also
 found most frequently in other focuses (e.g., prediction/intervention, assessment/feedback,
 Table 3 Classification of articles according to the learning settings
 LMS—centralized educational system (e.g. Moodle, Blackboard, etc.); Analytics Tool—special environ-
 ment designed for the needs of the study; Computer-based environment—environment that includes some
 type of computer technology (e.g. CSCL, desktop application); Virtual learning environment—a learning
 system with a virtual resource room feature; Web-based environment—web-based environment except
 LMS, VLE, MOOC 
 Learning setting Authors and Year 
 Learning management system Jo et al. (2015); Joksimovic et al. (2015); Lowes et al. (2015); Lotsari et al.
 (2014); Ma et al. (2015); Lim et al. (2019); Tempelaar et al. (2015), Rui-
 pérez-Valiente et al. (2015); Fidalgo-Blanco et al. (2015); Aljohani et al.
 (2019); Gašević et al. (2016); Kim et al. (2016); Colthorpe et al. (2015);
 Tempelaar et al. (2017); Lu et al. (2018); Zhang et al. (2018); Choi et al.
 (2018); Chen et al. (2018); Ibañez, Villalonga and Nuere (2019); Martin
 and Whitmer (2016) 
 Analytics tool Haya et al. (2015) 
 Computer-based environment Hershkovitz et al. (2013); Ji et al. (2015); Xing et al. (2015); Van Leeuwen
 et al. (2015); Howell et al., (2018a, 2018b)
 Virtual-learning environment Kennedy et al. (2013); Agudo-Peregrina et al. (2014); de Quincey et al.
 (2019) 
 Web-based environment Wise et al. (2014); Kim et al. (2018); Aguiar et al. (2014); Lin and Hwang
 (2018); Prasad et al. (2016) 



9

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 413 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 T a bl e 4 Cl a s si fi c ati o n 
 of 
 arti 
 cl e 
 s 
 a 
 c 
 c 
 or di n g t o t h e f o c u s e s of l e ar ni n g a n al yti c s
 F o c u s 
 A ut h or s a n d Y e ar 
 C o 
 u 
 nt 
 P 
 er c 
 e 
 nt 
 a 
 g 
 e 
 ( 
 %) 
 M o nit ori n g/ a n al y si s 
 H a y a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); H er s h k o vit z et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Ji et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o k si m o vi c et al. ( 2 0 1 5); K e n n e d y et al. ( 2 0 1 3); L ot s ari et al. ( 2 0 1 4); L o w e s et al. ( 2 0 1 5); M a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Xi n g et al. ( 2 0 1 5); A g u d o- P er e gri n a et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Va n L e e u w e n et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 8); T e m- p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); R ui p ér e z- Vali e nt e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Fi d al g o- Bl a n c o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Alj o h a ni et al. ( 2 0 1 9); G a š e vi ć et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 6); A g ui ar et al. ( 2 0 1 4); C olt h or p e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); d e Q ui n c e y et al. ( 2 0 1 9); Li n a n d H w a n g ( 2 0 1 8); L u et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Z h a n g et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Pr a s a d et al. ( 2 0 1 6); C h e n et al. ( 2 0 1 8); I b a ñ e z, Vill al o n g a & N u er e ( 2 0 1 9)
 2 9 
 4 
 8. 3 
 3 
 Pr e di cti o n/i nt er v e nti o n
 H er s h k o vit z et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Ji et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); K e n n e d y et al. ( 2 0 1 3); L ot s ari et al. ( 2 0 1 4); L o w e s et al. ( 2 0 1 5); M a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Xi n g et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Li m et al. ( 2 0 1 9); Va n L e e
 u- 
 w e n et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 8); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); G a š e vi ć et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 6); A g ui ar et al. ( 2 0 1 4); C olt h or p e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); d e Q ui n c e y et al. ( 2 0 1 9); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 7); L u et al. ( 2 0 1 8); C h oi et al. ( 2 0 1 8)
 2 1 
 3 
 5. 0 
 0 
 T ut ori n g/ m e nt ori n g
 - 
 0 
 0. 0 
 0 
 A s s e s s m e nt/f e e d b a c k
 K e n n e d y et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Li m et al. ( 2 0 1 9); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Alj o h a ni et al. ( 2 0 1 9); H o w ell et al., ( 2 0 1 8 a, 2 0 1 8 b); Z h a n g et al. ( 2 0 1 8)
 6 
 1 
 0. 0 
 0 
 A d a pt ati o n 
 M arti n a n d W hit m er ( 2 0 1 6)
 1 
 1. 6 
 7 
 P er s o n ali z ati o n/r e c o m
 m e 
 n 
 d 
 ati o 
 n 
 R ui p ér e z- Vali e nt e et al. ( 2 0 1 5)
 1 
 1. 6 
 7 
 R e fl e cti o n 
 Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); C h e n et al. ( 2 0 1 8)
 2 
 3. 3 
 3 
 T ot al 
 6 0 
 1 
 0 0 



10

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 414 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 T a bl e 5 
 Cl a s 
 si fi c 
 ati 
 o n 
 of 
 arti 
 cl 
 e 
 s a c c or di n g t o t h e t y p e s of st u d e nt-r el at e d a n al yti c s d at a
 T y p e s 
 A ut h or s a n d Y e ar 
 C o 
 u 
 nt 
 P 
 er c 
 e 
 nt 
 a 
 g 
 e 
 ( 
 %) 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 b e h 
 a vi o 
 ur 
 d at 
 a 
 H a y a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); H er s h k o vit z et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Ji et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o k si m o vi c et al. ( 2 0 1 5); K e n- n e d y et al. ( 2 0 1 3); L o w e s et al. ( 2 0 1 5); M a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Xi n g et al. ( 2 0 1 5); A g u d o- P er e- gri n a et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Li m et al. ( 2 0 1 9); Va n L e e u w e n et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 8); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); R ui p ér e z- Vali e nt e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Alj o h a ni et al. ( 2 0 1 9); G a š e vi ć et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 6); A g ui ar et al. ( 2 0 1 4); C olt h or p e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); d e Q ui n c e y et al. ( 2 0 1 9); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 7); Li n a n d H w a n g ( 2 0 1 8); L u et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Z h a n g et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Pr a s a d et al. ( 2 0 1 6); C h e n et al. ( 2 0 1 8); I b a ñ e z, Vill al o n g a & N u er e ( 2 0 1 9); M arti n a n d W hit m er ( 2 0 1 6)
 3 0 
 3 
 7. 0 
 4 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 e m 
 oti o n 
 al 
 d at 
 a 
 H er s h k o vit z et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); R ui p ér e z- Vali e nt e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); H o w ell et al., ( 2 0 1 8 a, 2 0 1 8 b); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 7)
 6 
 7. 4 
 1 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 n et 
 w or k 
 d 
 at a 
 H a y a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); H er s h k o vit z et al. ( 2 0 1 3); Ji et al. ( 2 0 1 5); L ot s ari et al. ( 2 0 1 4); L o w e s et al. ( 2 0 1 5); M a et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Wi s e et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Xi n g et al. ( 2 0 1 5); A g u d o- P er e gri n a et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Va n L e e u w e n et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Fi d al g o- Bl a n c o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); H o w ell et al., ( 2 0 1 8 a, 2 0 1 8 b); G a š e vi ć et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Li n a n d H w a n g ( 2 0 1 8); L u et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Z h a n g et al. ( 2 0 1 8); C h e n et al. ( 2 0 1 8); I b a ñ e z, Vill al o n g a & N u er e ( 2 0 1 9)
 2 0 
 2 
 4. 6 
 9 
 L e ar ni n 
 g 
 l e v 
 el d at 
 a 
 J o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); J o k si m o vi c et al. ( 2 0 1 5); L ot s ari et al. ( 2 0 1 4); L o w e s et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Xi n g et al. ( 2 0 1 5); A g u d o- P er e gri n a et al. ( 2 0 1 4); Li m et al. ( 2 0 1 9); Va n L e e u w e n et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 8); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 5); R ui p ér e z- Vali e nt e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Fi d al g o- Bl a n c o et al. ( 2 0 1 5); Alj o h a ni et al. ( 2 0 1 9); H o w ell et al., ( 2 0 1 8 a, 2 0 1 8 b); G a š e vi ć et al. ( 2 0 1 6); Ki m et al. ( 2 0 1 6); A g ui ar et al. ( 2 0 1 4); C olt h or p e et al. ( 2 0 1 5); d e Q ui n c e y et al. ( 2 0 1 9); T e m p el a ar et al. ( 2 0 1 7); Li n a n d H w a n g ( 2 0 1 8); L u et al. ( 2 0 1 8); Z h a n g et al. ( 2 0 1 8); C h oi et al. ( 2 0 1 8); M arti n a n d W hit m er ( 2 0 1 6)
 2 5 
 3 
 0. 8 
 6 
 T ot al 
 8 1 
 1 
 0 0 



11

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 415 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 reflection, recommendation, and adaption). These results help to reveal which types of stu-
 dent-related analytic data are most used in the focuses of LA.
 Different kinds of learning settings have various functions and impacts of their own on
 teaching and learning practices. Table 7 shows that learning behaviour data and learning
 level data are the two types of student-related analytics data found mostly in LMS. Learn-
 ing behaviour data was also found mostly in the virtual-learning environment and the web-
 based environment while the type of data used most in the computer-based environment is
 learning network data. On the other hand, in the analytics tool, learning behaviour data and
 learning network data are the two types of data that are being used most.
 6 Discussion 
 In this section, we present the discussions based on the stated research questions.
 Table 6 Classification of articles according to the focuses of learning analytics versus the types of student-
 related analytics data 
 *The highest number 
 Focus Types of student-related analytics data 
 (number) 
 Learning behaviour 
 data 
 Learning emotional 
 data 
 Learning network 
 data 
 Learn- 
 ing level 
 data 
 Monitoring/analysis 28* 4 19 21 
 Prediction/intervention 18* 4 11 17 
 Assessment/feedback 5* 2 2 4 
 Reflection 2* 1 2* - 
 Recommendation 1* 1* - 1* 
 Adaption 1* - - 1* 
 Total 145 
 Table 7 Classification of articles according to the learning setting versus types of student-related analytics
 data 
 *The highest number 
 Learning setting Types of student-related analytics data (number)
 Learning behav- 
 iour data 
 Learning emo- 
 tional data 
 Learning net- 
 work data 
 Learn- 
 ing level 
 data 
 LMS 17* 3 9 17* 
 Analytics tool 1* - 1* - 
 Computer-based Environment 4 2 5* 3 
 Virtual-learning Environment 3* - 1 2 
 Web-based environment 5* 1 3 3 
 Total 80 



12

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 416 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 RQ1: What are the focuses (objectives) of learning analytics do researchers applied so
 far in the online learning environment and its significant results?
 In general, the most visible focuses of LA practices are on monitoring/analysis and
 prediction/intervention, and less attention was given to assessment/feedback, reflection,
 tutoring/mentoring, adaptation, and personalization/recommendation. However, intelligent
 tutoring and adaptation was found as the most frequently applied focus on LA objectives,
 followed by monitoring and analysis in the study conducted by Chatti et al. (2012). The
 shift in the trend is probably due to the growing interest in addressing how LA really func-
 tions in leveraging the effectiveness of the teaching and learning process. In other words,
 the focus should be on understanding the underlying pedagogy of the teaching and learning
 process rather than on the technology per se. As we know, adaptation is concerned more
 with data and technology. Being adaptive is fundamental to lifelong learning for individu-
 als to be able to learn, unlearn, and relearn when new technologies change old tasks and
 produce new tasks (Chai et al., 2015). The adaptive system/program monitors the behav-
 iour of a student while he/she is engaged with the system/program, and the learning experi-
 ence is changed and improved over time based on the student's performance. For adaptive
 learning to function successfully, substantial preparation of the content is required to assist
 with the variation of learning pathways established by each student (Hoppes, 2015). To
 prepare the content, the faculty needs first to understand the underlying pedagogy which
 has caused the individual to behave differently in online learning. Due to this, increasingly,
 research on LA has started to focus on analysing students' online learning data to better
 understand and support the learning process. More teaching strategies can be used effec-
 tively based on these online learning data analyses in order to meet the demands of stu-
 dents in their learning process. 
 A common task in monitoring/analysis is to track students' online learning activities
 and produce reports for teachers and institutions so they can make a more informed deci-
 sion regarding student performance and learning. Some of the studies that were reviewed
 under this category have revealed very important results which can benefit LA practice.
 Haya et al. (2015), for instance, stressed the importance of multiple levels of analysis in
 order to have deeper insights about the collaborative process. Meanwhile, Ji et al. (2015)
 stated that the difference between active and inactive students in relation to participa-
 tion is due to the differences in usage in classes, which depended on the requirements of
 teachers. Next, Joksimovic et al. (2015) revealed that communications between students
 and instructors, as well as among students, would not be the main focus in foundation
 courses since the contents of such courses are mostly about basic knowledge, and students
 can handle such knowledge on their own. In contrast, the increased level of interaction
 between peers can be seen in the elective courses due to the close relevance to their final
 master's research. The core courses, on the other hand, showed an increase in communi-
 cation between instructor and students because of the complexity of the course content,
 which requires extensive support from the instructor. This implies that the design of learn-
 ing in an online environment should not be the same for every type of course level. Besides
 that, an LA approach was used by Lin and Hwang (2018) to analyse the factors affect-
 ing the students' oral presentation outcomes. In Ma's (2015) study, the results revealed
 that an instructor's course preparation is significantly and positively related to the students'
 viewing activities, while an instructor's guidance and assistance has a significant impact on
 the students' completion of the learning tasks. Correspondingly, Zhang et al. (2018) also
 reported that students' login behaviours, resource utilization, interactive behaviours, etc.
 can affect students' learning process and results of online learning. Kim et al. (2018) also



13

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 417 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 applied LA to identify student profiles by analysing log data associated to self-regulated
 learning in an online course, including online study time, log-in numbers, test scores, etc.
 Three other studies (Jo et al., 2015; Lowes et al., 2015; Xing et al., 2015) also highlighted
 that LA practice should not be data driven only but should be theory driven as well. This is
 because the theoretical underpinning is able to address a student's particular competency in
 the multifaceted complexities of online learning. 
 Prediction/intervention is also a key objective in LA research. Prediction is concerned
 with developing a model to predict knowledge and future performance, and the developed
 model can be used for intervention purposes, which can help struggling students to succeed
 in a course. Regarding intervention, only a few studies focused on this aspect, including
 Choi et al.'s (2018) study, Wise et al.'s (2014) study and so on. The prediction models are
 often developed through data mining techniques (e.g. Clustering, Classification, Associa-
 tion Rule), or statistical analyses (e.g. Regression, Structural Equation Modeling, SEM),
 or both. Some of the interesting models that have been created are related to student care-
 lessness in learning (Hershkovitz et al., 2013), the learner activity model in a collaborative
 learning system (Ji et al., 2015), the proxy variables for adult learners' time management
 strategies (Jo et al., 2015), a model for learning surgical techniques through simulation
 (Kennedy et al., 2013), a method of student profiling in online discussions (Lotsari et al.,
 2014), a model of the relationship between engagement and final grade (Lowes et al.,
 2015), a teaching and learning interaction activities model (Ma et al., 2015), and a partici-
 pation-based student final performance prediction model (Gašević et al., 2016; Xing et al.,
 2015). Some authors (Lotsari et al., 2014; Lowes et al., 2015) have used only one predic-
 tive algorithm in constructing the prediction model, whereas others (Kennedy et al., 2013;
 Xing et al., 2015) have opted to use more than one predictive algorithm. Xing et al. (2015)
 stated that algorithm selection is the key to developing an effective performance prediction
 model, and while some modelling algorithms (e.g., artificial neural networks) have a good
 prediction rate in other disciplines, those algorithms may not necessarily function equally
 well when addressing educational problems in each case. This is due to the limitations in
 the availability of training data. Lu et al. (2018) predicted the final academic performance
 of students by using regression, and the findings revealed that the final academic perfor-
 mance of students could be predicted after one-third of the semester. Ji et al. (2015), mean-
 while, claimed that a model can be developed regardless of data size by carefully selecting
 features that illustrate learners' activities from log data, and the developed model can be
 tested later for validation purposes. As the algorithms used become increasingly complex,
 it will cause some difficulties for teachers and students in interpreting the reports during
 the implementation (Kennedy et al., 2013; Xing et al., 2015). Therefore, researchers need
 to provide guidelines on how to interpret the data so as to avoid negative understanding and
 conclusions. 
 Intervention, assessment/ feedback, tutoring / mentoring, adaptation, and personaliza-
 tion/ recommendation are types of research which are oriented to the application of data.
 From Table 4, it can be seen that not many studies have been conducted under these cat-
 egories. This is because these types of study are complex to execute (in terms of data
 management and appropriate visualization) and require accurate data profiling to function
 effectively. The data also need to be processed and presented to the stakeholders (e.g., stu-
 dent, teacher, institution) to support decision making. Knowing the stakeholder's needs
 precisely will directly influence the development of the analytics process. As for the sug-
 gestion, to optimize the teaching and learning process, future LA practices should place the
 student and teacher as the most important stakeholders. This can be done by offering ways
 that allow teacher and student to reflect on and draw conclusions from the effectiveness of



14

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 418 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 their teaching method and learning behaviour, and give appropriate feedback as a means to
 intervene in the learning process. Therefore, more research related to feedback, adaptation,
 intervention, and reflection needs to be conducted in the future, and the challenges that sur-
 round the process need to be addressed properly. 
 LA technologies in terms of the tools/environments that have been used in the review
 studies can be classified into five main categories (LMS, Analytics tool, Computer-sup-
 ported environment, Virtual learning environment and Web-based environment), with
 LMS topping the list since the trend for LA research in the past few years has focused on
 centralized learning systems. Basically, research that is related to monitoring/analysis is
 suitable for any type of learning environment as long as that environment is able to track
 the log files of teacher and student activities when using the system, and can offer a simple
 way of monitoring and assessing performance. However, a suitable learning environment
 is needed if the aim is to attain a particular pedagogical goal. For instance, Kennedy et al.
 (2013) conducted research related to providing timely feedback to students when learn-
 ing surgical techniques through a virtual learning environment since the simulation fea-
 ture is not available in the LMS environment. Quincey et al. (2019) used the visualization
 form for student-centred design. Ibañez, Villalonga and Nuere (2019) analysed the data
 from LMS, such as user behaviour, user activity, etc. to explore their students' activity.
 Haya et al. (2015), meanwhile, used the Social Learning Analytics Toolkit combined with
 social network analysis and content analysis to assess the collaboration process for a video
 production task. Furthermore, Wise et al. (2014) utilized a web-based environment named
 Starburst to embed analytics for intervention purposes, which cannot be done through
 the LMS environment. We also noticed that, in this review, there is no study which links
 Mobility environment. This environment has one thing in common, that is, visualization
 (e.g., videos, diagrams, and tables), and it should be noted that visualization is strongly
 related to LA research interests. Therefore, it will be interesting if future LA research could
 put heavier emphasis on investigating the essential learning interaction through this sug-
 gested environment so as to fully appreciate the role they play in presenting education.
 RQ2: What types of student-related analytics data in an online learning environment
 and the issues are related to analytics data? 
 The most investigated student-related analytics data is learning behaviour data, whereas
 the least examined student-related analytics data is learning emotional data. This find-
 ing is expected, as learning behaviour data is suitable for providing insights into student
 participation in online courses, for example, the number of logins, the number of pages
 accessed, the time spent in the system, and so on. Plus, it is much easier to gather this type
 of data through the LMS used. As researchers have investigated the behaviour data, which
 is linked to success, the behaviour chosen has varied since it depends on what behaviours
 the researchers believe are important in their research context as well as what data are
 available in the learning environment setting. For instance, Lowes et al. (2015) investi-
 gated how online participation behaviours are related to course outcomes. They found that
 all three frequency behaviours (number of days accessed system, number of times logged
 into system, total spent logged) successfully predicted the course grade. Prasad, Rajneel
 and Usagawa (2016) tracked learners' online and offline interactions with open textbooks
 such as total views of chapter, etc. On the other hand, Kennedy et al. (2013) assessed 48
 behaviours generated by the 3D environment and discovered that these behaviour variables
 can provide meaningful feedback in surgical education and training. While learning behav-
 ioural data continue to provide insights into what is going on inside courses, there is one



15

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 419 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 major limitation to the use of this behaviour data: this type of learning data allows only a
 partial/surface inspection of engagement/interaction, and it is not suitable to be used if a
 researcher wants to investigate a deeper level of engagement/interaction (for instance, the
 qualitative aspects of instructor-students and student-student engagement/interaction) and
 how students/instructor attained a certain level of engagement. This limitation has driven
 other researchers (Haya et al., 2015; Hershkovitz et al., 2013; Ji et al., 2015; Lotsari et al.,
 2014; Lowes et al., 2015; Ma et al., 2015; Wise et al., 2014; Xing et al., 2015; Zhang et al.,
 2018; Ibañez, Villalonga & Nuere, 2019) to focus not only on the behaviour data but on the
 learning network data as well since this type of data is critical in explaining the complexi-
 ties of the learning process which takes place in an online setting.
 Among the outcomes that have been achieved by analysing learning network data are
 (1) revealing how students contribute to and attend to the messages of others, (2) facilitat-
 ing productive decision making and enabling reflection based on the current status of the
 discussion forum, and (3) implementing appropriate intervention for changes in teaching
 and learning pedagogical strategies. It should be noted that most of the studies reviewed
 here have considered some dimensions of network data like post forums, reply forums,
 and so on. Also, there is limited research that examines how the unstructured data (unfixed
 data), like pictures, videos, and so on, can influence the discourse content among students
 and instructor. Moreover, each study has used only one type of online learning environ-
 ment and has not considered data that come from the outside learning environment, for
 instance, Facebook, Skype, blogs, and so on, which might have strengthened the learning
 network data. Therefore, we expect more detailed studies to consider the abovementioned
 aspect, as this is the most popular trend in LA. Further verification of the findings of the
 reviewed studies should also be conducted to ascertain the effectiveness of learning net-
 work data in teaching and learning and to evaluate the transferability of the research across
 different fields and settings. 
 From Table 5, it is also noticed that a large number of studies used learning level data
 (e.g., exam grade) since this is the fastest and simplest indicator/measure that one can refer
 to in order to know about the overview performance in learning. Most of the studies used
 this type of data to predict students' performance and to identify at-risk students. However,
 it can also be seen that not many studies have examined learning emotional data (e.g., post
 about feelings). For learning emotional data, more research needs to be conducted though
 it may be difficult to interpret this kind of data precisely and might require a significant
 amount of interpretation time, as the data are abstract in nature. This is because students'
 emotions could be one of the main reasons for dropout rates, and different students will
 experience different emotions and feelings at different times even in the same situation
 (Pekrun, 2014). Additionally, reducing learners' drop-out rates was the main objective of
 many education researchers and practitioners. Therefore, it is suggested that more attention
 should be paid to the research related to the psychological aspect of students, such as moti-
 vation, in order to enhance the teaching and learning success.
 Furthermore, Table 6 shows learning behaviour data are mostly used in the focus of
 the monitoring/ analysis and the prediction and intervention to support the teaching and
 learning practices. From Table 7, it could also be seen that learning behaviour data and
 learning level data are the two types of data most used in LMS, whilst learning network
 data are used highly in computer-based environments. These results give us an over-
 view of the types of student-related analytics data which are highly used in the focus
 of LA objectives and learning settings. From the reviewed articles, we became aware
 that identifying and collecting the right type of analytics data is fundamental for the LA
 process. Yet, big issues emerged in relation to analytics data, and these require some



16

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 420 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 consideration regarding LA practices. These include the following: (1) it is not fully
 understood how a huge student dataset can be managed and integrated, (2) it is not cer-
 tain how LA results are disseminated through the student, faculty, and institution, and
 back again, and (3) it is not certain to what extent ethics should be considered in order
 to practise LA in higher learning institutions. Advances in computational technology
 in higher learning institutions have made possible the support of a large volume of stu-
 dents' data. However, these data are often stored separately, and higher education "has
 traditionally been inefficient in its data use, often operating with substantial delays in
 analysing readily evident data and feedback" (Long & Siemens, 2011, p.32).
 To date, less is known about how the aggregation of data can present meaningful
 information about the teaching and learning process. It is beyond the scope of this paper
 to debate about an integrated or disintegrated system to practise the LA approach; how-
 ever, there is a need for an integrated, synchronized, and holistic approach involving all
 stakeholders. The review of the articles somehow shows that, often, the LA findings are
 made available not to students and the institutions but to teachers only; nevertheless, it
 should be noticed that teachers are not the only actors that are responsible for students'
 success. This raises the point that the decision to act based on the LA findings should
 be made by other stakeholders who can contribute to and use the analyses; these include
 students, faculties, and institutions. By doing so, it may increase the understanding of
 student success, and appropriate actions can be tailored to achieve a higher value of
 teaching and learning for the institution. The ethical issues regarding the use of data for
 making decisions are a new subject for the educational sector. There is an obligation on
 the part of the institutions to formulate the codes of conduct, which detail the rights of
 each stakeholder and which cover informed consent, the purpose of data tracking, data
 ownership, and the extents of data usage (Land & Bayne, 2005) and to make it known if
 the data collected from students are used for other purposes. To sum up, when dealing
 with analytics data, it is important to remember to always "get the right data and get the
 data right". 
 RQ3: To what extent have learning analytics interventions been applied, so far, in
 online learning environments, if any? 
 According to Wise et al. (2014), the purpose of LA intervention is to serve as validation
 of the potential effectiveness of LA for influencing student activity in online discussions.
 Among the 34 articles reviewed here, only a few studies (Choi et al., 2018; de Quincey
 et al., 2019; Lim et al., 2019; Wise et al., 2014) focused on the intervention aspect, which
 studied the framing of the activity (for teachers and/or students) of interpreting and mak-
 ing decisions based on the analytics. Lim et al. (2019) provided an LA-based feedback
 intervention while de Quincey et al. (2019) provided intervention in the form of weekly
 personalised notifications to students in order to enhance their learning performance. Choi
 et al. (2018) designed a systematic proactive intervention for students (e.g., emails, phone
 calls, etc.), and the result showed that the number of interventions is positively associated
 with the efficacy. Wise et al. (2014) first overviewed the E-Listening research program
 and translated the work into analytics that students and instructors could use to reflect on
 their discussion participation. Findings from an initial implementation of the application
 indicated that the LA intervention supported changes in students' discussion participa-
 tion. They further highlighted that another vital but less researched aspect is the model for
 intervention. Developing an intervention model that can increase learners' learning per-
 formance is significant in prompting learning and teaching and developing LA (Wu et al.,



17

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 421 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 2015). This is aligned with the findings from the systematic review by Wong (2020) about
 how more research on LA intervention is needed. 
 Further searching through the literature revealed that the current trend for LA interven-
 tion is basically about the construction of a model or framework to guide the execution of
 LA intervention. Wu et al. (2015) designed the intervention model and strategy based on
 the behaviour data of learners. The core of the intervention model is an intervention engine
 containing learners' learning status identification, intervention strategy matching and cal-
 culation, intervention application, and intervention effectiveness analysis. Kew and Tasir
 (2016) meanwhile proposed the LA intervention framework, which focuses on enhancing
 motivation, cognitive engagement, cognitive retention, and academic performance for stu-
 dents with different learning styles. Besides that, some other studies related to LA were
 also conducted to enhance teaching practices. For instance, Lonn et al. (2015) investigated
 students' motivation in the context of an LA intervention during a summer bridge program,
 and it was suggested that students' perceptions about their goal and performance are essen-
 tially paid attention while designing LA intervention. Wise et al. (2014) were also con-
 cerned with the application of LA in investigating the ways learners give and respond to
 peers' messages on online discussions, and an intervention was designed by referring to the
 principles proposed by Wise et al. (2013), which showed a positive result. Moreover, some
 successful institutions which have utilized LA tools for intervention purposes have con-
 firmed the important role of intervention in higher education institutions; for example, Rio
 Salado Community College with Progress and Course Engagement, University of Mich-
 igan with 
 E2 
 Coach, Marist College with Open Academic Analytics Initiative, Northern
 Arizona University with Grade Performance Status, and Open University, UK which drives
 intervention at the student level. 
 For the intervention to be useful in guiding decision making by teachers and students,
 a proper intervention method should be framed. Besides the well-designed metrics, most
 teachers and students need guidelines and training on how to read and interpret the LA
 output, so they can understand what needs to change and how to address that change (Wise
 et al., 2014). Although current works on LA intervention help to provide a point of refer-
 ence for us to expand the valuable attribute for conducting intervention in an online learn-
 ing environment in the near future, we believe that one model/framework on intervention
 will not fit exactly with every mission in improving teaching and learning performance
 since online learning is very complex in nature. Therefore, more LA interventions should
 be developed, which was also proposed by Wong (2020) and Kew and Tasir (2017a,
 2017b). 
 All in all, this section has discussed the findings and challenges in LA that need further
 review and research to examine and overcome them. In the future, the use of LA and the
 algorithms in the educational field will become increasingly complex, which means teach-
 ers will face some difficulties in interpreting the reports during the implementation. To
 resolve this, a clear guideline needs to be provided on how to interpret the data in order
 to get a more precise understanding. Besides that, it would be more challenging to fully
 understand about students from the psychological aspect in online learning. It is then pro-
 posed that future research should pay more attention to elements of this aspect, such as
 motivation, satisfaction, confidence, anxiety, etc., in order to enhance the success of teach-
 ing and learning. Additionally, different instructors and institutions will increasingly inte-
 grate different online settings; thus, more research related to different objectives and dif-
 ferent types of student-related analytics data need to be carried out to tackle this challenge.
 Also, as mentioned earlier, some issues need to be resolved in the future as well, such as (1)
 it is not fully understood how a huge student dataset can be managed and integrated, (2) it



18

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 422 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 is not certain how LA results are disseminated through the student, faculty, and institution,
 and back again, and (3) it is not certain to what extent ethics should be considered in order
 to practice LA in higher learning institutions. Furthermore, as the amount of online learn-
 ing will be growing rapidly, more LA interventions should be developed to assist students.
 7 Conclusion and Implications 
 Among the aforementioned review studies on LA, the studies which examine student-
 related analytics data including the focus of LA research and types of student-related ana-
 lytics data in the online learning environment are still vague. However, this review paper
 has contributed to knowledge of this aspect by providing an overview of LA. This review
 paper has described the efforts made to offer the reader the necessary details regarding the
 practical usage of LA techniques in an online learning environment, and the review has
 shown that (1) the applied focus of LA is more oriented towards monitoring/analysis and
 prediction/intervention, (2) the commonly used types of student-analytics data are learn-
 ing behaviour data and learning level data, and (3) the intervention is still in the process of
 being developed where researchers are investing a great amount of effort in constructing
 models or frameworks to execute the intervention process. We are certain that the shift in
 focus will occur as this field evolves due to the emergence of new technologies which can
 be explored from the LA viewpoint. In addition, the challenges that have been stated need
 to be addressed in order to get credible results and to develop an understanding of how LA
 can be applied in its full complexity. 
 Besides that, this review paper generates some implications for practice. The findings
 showed that LA is greatly utilised by the researchers, and since the data trail from the
 online learning environment that is created by students when they engage with such a
 system can be retrieved and analysed to discover meaningful data about learners, it is
 believed that it can enhance the quality of online teaching and learning practices. For
 example, different types of data can be tracked, analysed, and interpreted in order to
 meet the different goals, including formulating different frameworks of learning behav-
 iour of students and building fundamental knowledge of LA. In particular, Ifenthaler
 and Widanapathirana (2014) highlighted that theoretical concepts and empirical evi-
 dence need to be generated within the LA field. Additionally, from this study, it is found
 that most of LA focus on monitoring/ analysis, and the most commonly used type of
 data is learning behaviour data, showing that LA could be related to technology integra-
 tion in online learning from behaviourist perspective that aims to understand students'
 learning behaviour in order to improve learning. This can then be used to formulate
 the framework or model. Also, it is vital to link with the pedagogical objectives with
 the types of data captured and assessed so as to provide data that are accessible to aca-
 demic staff; thus, they are able to understand holistically about student interactions in
 online learning environments. To prepare the content, the instructors need first to have
 some idea of the underlying pedagogy which has had an impact on the individual so
 they behave differently in online learning. Due to this, increasingly, research on LA has
 started to focus on analysing students' online learning data to better understand and sup-
 port the learning process. Therefore, this showed that the instructors should consistently
 apply LA as one of their teaching strategies to monitor the learning progress of students
 through learning behaviour data. On the other hand, learning level data focuses signifi-
 cantly on the performance of students in online learning, as a more effective learning



19

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 423 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 environment is designed to help students actively organize information by making the
 internal cognitive connections underpinning cognitivism learning theory (Koç, 2005).
 These can be taken into consideration and used as a reference by instructors for effec-
 tive technology integration in online learning through LA, in particular when designing
 teaching materials or intervention for students in order to support the learning process.
 Moreover, the findings from this review paper also informed the types of LA technol-
 ogies in terms of the tools/environment which have contributed to the knowledge body
 of LA, particularly the methodology aspect. It is found that some areas are still under-
 researched, for example, LA tools, as there was only one article. Thus, more studies
 should be carried out in the future because it is an important area to be investigated. In
 particular, Haya et al. (2015) highlighted the importance of multiple levels of analysis
 to have a deeper understanding about the learning process. Additionally, learning and
 teaching processes are dynamic, where multimodal analysis is needed to help instructors
 understand their students' learning processes in online learning (Şahin and Yurdugül,
 2020). This finding also encourages more researchers to develop more LA technologies
 to assist the instructors in online learning. Also, there is limited research that exam-
 ines how the unstructured data, for example, graphics and videos, can influence the dis-
 course content among students and their instructor. It is also noticed that limited studies
 have examined learning emotional data (e.g., posts on feelings), as the data are abstract
 in nature. Therefore, based on the findings of the review, instructors are encouraged to
 focus on these underinvestigated research areas, since the integration of LA in online
 teaching practice has a variety of useful functions. In particular, it can be used to dis-
 cover the undesirable learning behaviours through monitoring or predicting and then to
 provide intervention to students based on the outcome of data analysis to solve online
 learning issues. 
 8 Limitations and Future Studies 
 While the result for this paper has contributed to the body of knowledge in LA and some
 useful suggestions for future studies have been highlighted in the discussion section, this
 paper is not without its limitations. One of the limitations is that only 34 articles from
 2012-2020 were reviewed; thus, more systematic reviews on this topic are needed in the
 future. Some parts of these LA articles were not looked into, such as the research meth-
 odology part, including how these LA studies were conducted and how the authors visu-
 alized their LA findings. It is also suggested that future studies can analyse this part by
 referring to the five approaches proposed by Ferguson and Shum (2012): social network
 analytics, discourse analytics, content analytics, disposition analytics and context analyt-
 ics. Additionally, the researchers can consider analysing multimodal multichannel data and
 LA algorithms and techniques. Other than that, the review on which role of stakeholders
 is important and information about who is affected in these LA studies have not been ana-
 lysed. Therefore, these limitations should be taken into consideration in the future so that
 the potential use of LA can be maximized. 
 Funding The authors would like to thank the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) for their support
 in making this project possible. This research was supported by Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE)
 through Fundamental Research Grant Scheme (FRGS/1/2020/SSI0/UTM/02/11).



20

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 424 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 References 
 Agudo-Peregrina, Á. F., Iglesias-Pradas, S., Conde-González, M. Á., & Hernández-García, Á. (2014).
 Can we predict success from log data in VLEs? Classification of interactions for learning analyt-
 ics and their relation with performance in VLE-supported F2F and online learning. Computers in
 Human Behavior, 31, 542-550. 
 Aguiar, E., Chawla, N. V., Brockman, J., Ambrose, G. A., & Goodrich, V. (2014). Engagement vs per-
 formance: using electronic portfolios to predict first semester engineering student retention. In
 Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Learning Analytics And Knowledge (pp.
 103-112). 
 Aljohani, N. R., Daud, A., Abbasi, R. A., Alowibdi, J. S., Basheri, M., & Aslam, M. A. (2019). An inte-
 grated framework for course adapted student learning analytics dashboard. Computers in Human
 Behavior, 92, 679-690. 
 Alonso-Fernández, C., Calvo-Morata, A., Freire, M., Martínez-Ortiz, I., & Fernández-Manjón, B. (2019).
 Applications of data science to game learning analytics data: A systematic literature review. Comput-
 ers and Education, 141, 103612. 
 Arnold, K. E., & Pistilli, M. D. (2012). Course signals at Purdue: Using learning analytics to increase stu-
 dent success. In S. Buckingham Shum, D. Gasevic, & R. Ferguson (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2nd
 International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge (LAK ′12) (pp. 267-270). New York:
 ACM. 
 Baiocchi, R. R. (2019). Exploring data driven youth character education frameworks: A systematic literature
 review on learning analytics models and participatory design. Estudios Sobre Educacion, 37, 179-198.
 Chai, C. S., Deng, F., Tsai, P. S., Koh, J. H. L., & Tsai, C. C. (2015). Assessing multidimensional students'
 perceptions of twenty-first-century learning practices. Asia Pacific Education Review, 16(3), 389-398.
 Chatti, M. A., Dyckhoff, A. L., Schroeder, U., & Thüs, H. (2012). A reference model for learning analytics.
 International Journal of Technology Enhanced Learning, 4(5-6), 318-331.
 Chen, B., Chang, Y. H., Ouyang, F., & Zhou, W. (2018). Fostering student engagement in online discussion
 through social learning analytics. The Internet and Higher Education, 37, 21-30.
 Choi, S. P., Lam, S. S., Li, K. C., & Wong, B. T. (2018). Learning analytics at low cost: At-risk student
 prediction with clicker data and systematic proactive interventions. Journal of Educational Technology
 and Society, 21(2), 273-290. 
 Colthorpe, K., Zimbardi, K., Ainscough, L., & Anderson, S. (2015). Know Thy Student! Combining Learn-
 ing Analytics and Critical Reflections to Increase Understanding of Students' Self-Regulated Learning
 in an Authentic Setting. Journal of Learning Analytics, 2(1), 134-155.
 Cooper, A. (2012). What is analytics? Definition and essential characteristics. CETIS Analytics Series, 1(5),
 1-10. 
 Corrin, L., & de Barba, P. (2014). Exploring students' interpretation of feedback delivered through learn-
 ing analytics dashboards. In B. Hegarty, J. McDonald, & S. K. Loke (Eds.) Proceedings of the ascilite
 2014 conference (pp.629-633). Dunedin, NZ. 
 de Quincey, E., Briggs, C., Kyriacou, T., & Waller, R. (2019). Student centred design of a learning analytics
 system. In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Learning Analytics & Knowledge (pp.
 353-362). 
 Ferguson, R. (2012). Learning analytics: Drivers, developments and challenges. International Journal of
 Technology Enhanced Learning, 4(5-6), 304-317. 
 Fidalgo-Blanco, Á., Sein-Echaluce, M. L., García-Peñalvo, F. J., & Conde, M. Á. (2015). Using Learning
 Analytics to improve teamwork assessment. Computers in Human Behavior, 47, 149-156.
 Gašević, D., Dawson, S., Rogers, T., & Gasevic, D. (2016). Learning analytics should not promote one size
 fits all: The effects of instructional conditions in predicting academic success. The Internet and Higher
 Education, 28, 68-84. 
 Gasevic, D., Dawson, S., & Siemens, G. (2015). Let's not forget: Learning analytics are about learning.
 TechTrends, 59(1), 64-71. 
 Goldstein, P. J., & Katz, R. N. (2005). Academic analytics: The uses of management information and tech-
 nology in higher education. Washington, DC: EDUCAUSE Center for Applied Research. Retrieve
 from http:// net. educa use. edu/ ir/ libra ry/ pdf/ ecar_ so/ ers/ ers05 08/ EKF05 08. pdf.
 Gunn, C. (2014). Defining an agenda for learning analytics. In B. Hegarty, J. McDonald, & S. K. Loke
 (Eds.), Rhetoric and Reality: Critical perspectives on educational technology. Proceedings of the asci-
 lite 2014 conference (pp.683-687). Dunedin, NZ. 
 Haya, P. A., Daems, O., Malzahn, N., Castellanos, J., & Hoppe, H. U. (2015). Analysing content and pat-
 terns of interaction for improving the learning design of networked learning environments. British
 Journal of Educational Technology, 46(2), 300-316. 



21

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 425 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 Hershkovitz, A., de Baker, R. S. J., Gobert, J., Wixon, M., & Sao Pedro, M. (2013). Discovery with
 models a case study on carelessness in computer-based science inquiry. American Behavioral Sci-
 entist, 57(10), 1480-1499. 
 Hoppes, C. R. (2015). Defining and differentiating personalized learning, adaptive learning and com-
 petency-based. Retrieved from http:// www. helix educa tion. com/ wp- conte nt/ uploa ds/ 2015/ 08/ Diffe
 renti ated- Learn ing-_ Helix- Educa tion- White- Paper_ Dista nce- Teach ing- and- Learn ing- 2015-. pdf.
 Howell, J. A., Roberts, L. D., & Mancini, V. O. (2018a). Learning analytics messages: Impact of grade,
 sender, comparative information and message style on student affect and academic resilience. Com-
 puters in Human Behavior, 89, 8-15. 
 Howell, J. A., Roberts, L. D., Seaman, K., & Gibson, D. C. (2018b). Are we on our way to becom-
 ing a "helicopter university"? Academics' views on learning analytics. Technology, Knowledge and
 Learning, 23(1), 1-20. 
 Ibañez, P., Villalonga, C., & Nuere, L. (2019). Exploring student activity with learning analytics in
 the digital environments of the Nebrija University. Technology, Knowledge and Learning, 25(4),
 769-787. 
 Ifenthaler, D., & Widanapathirana, C. (2014). Development and validation of a learning analytics frame-
 work: Two case studies using support vector machines. Technology, Knowledge and Learning,
 19(1-2), 221-240. 
 Ji, H., Park, K., Jo, J., & Lim, H. (2015). Mining students activities from a computer supported collabo-
 rative learning system based on peer to peer network. Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications,
 9(3), 465-476. 
 Jo, I. H., Kim, D., & Yoon, M. (2015). Constructing proxy variables to measure adult learners' time
 management strategies in LMS. Educational Technology and Society, 18(3), 214-225.
 Joksimovic, S., Gasevic, D., Loughin, T. M., Kovanovic, V., & Hatala, M. (2015). Learning at distance:
 Effects of interaction traces on academic achievement. Computers and Education, 87, 204-217.
 Kennedy, G., Ioannou, I., Zhou, Y., Bailey, J., & O'Leary, S. (2013). Mining interactions in immersive
 learning environments for real-time student feedback. Australasian Journal of Educational Tech-
 nology, 29(2), 172-183. 
 Kew, S. N. & Tasir, Z. (2016). A framework for learning analytics intervention in e-learning. In 2016 Pro-
 ceedings of Regional Conference on Engineering Education (pp. 24-30) Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
 Kew, S. N., & Tasir, Z. (2017a). A systematic review of learning analytics intervention contributing to
 student success in online learning. IEEE Conference Proceedings of LaTiCE, Hong Kong, 2017,
 62-68. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ LaTiCE. 2017. 183
 Kew, S. N. & Tasir, Z. (2017). Identifying at-risk students in online learning by analysing learn-
 ing behaviour: a systematic review. In IEEE Conference Proceedings of Big Data and Analytics
 (ICBDA), Kuching 2017 (pp. 118-123). doi: https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ ICBDAA. 2017. 82841 17
 Kim, D., Park, Y., Yoon, M., & Jo, I. H. (2016). Toward evidence-based learning analytics: Using proxy
 variables to improve asynchronous online discussion environments. The Internet and Higher Edu-
 cation, 30, 30-43. 
 Kim, D., Yoon, M., Jo, I. H., & Branch, R. M. (2018). Learning analytics to support self-regulated learn-
 ing in asynchronous online courses: A case study at a women's university in South Korea. Comput-
 ers and Education, 127, 233-251. 
 Koç, M. (2005). Implications of learning theories for effective technology integration and pre-service
 teacher training: A critical literature review. Journal of Turkish Science Education, 2(1), 2-18.
 Land, R., & Bayne, S. (2005). Screen or monitor? Surveillance and disciplinary power in online
 learning environments. In R. Land & S. Bayne (Eds.), Education in Cyberspace (pp. 165-178).
 RoutledgeFalmer. 
 Lim, L. A., Gentili, S., Pardo, A., Kovanović, V., Whitelock-Wainwright, A., Gašević, D., & Dawson, S.
 (2019). What changes, and for whom? A study of the impact of learning analytics-based process feed-
 back in a large course. Learning and Instruction. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. learn instr uc. 2019. 04. 003
 Lin, C. J., & Hwang, G. J. (2018). A learning analytics approach to investigating factors affecting EFL
 students' oral performance in a flipped classroom. Journal of Educational Technology and Society,
 21(2), 205-219. 
 Long, P., & Siemens, G. (2011). Penetrating the fog: analytics in learning and education. EDUCAUSE
 Review, 46(5), 31-40. 
 Lonn, S., Aguilar, S. J., & Teasley, S. D. (2015). Investigating student motivation in the context of a learn-
 ing analytics intervention during a summer bridge program. Computer in Human Behavior, 47, 90-97.
 Lotsari, E., Verykios, V. S., Panagiotakopoulos, C., & Kalles, D. (2014). A learning analytics methodol-
 ogy for student profiling. In A. Likas, K. Blekas, & D. Kalles (Eds.), 8th Hellenic Conference on AI
 (pp. 300-312). Springer International Publishing. 



22

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 426 S. N. Kew, Z. Tasir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 Lowes, S., Lin, P., & Kinghorn, B. (2015). Exploring the link between online behaviours and course per-
 formance in asynchronous online high school courses. Journal of Learning Analytics, 2(2), 169-189.
 Lu, O. H., Huang, A. Y., Huang, J. C., Lin, A. J., Ogata, H., & Yang, S. J. (2018). Applying learning analyt-
 ics for the early prediction of Students' academic performance in blended learning. Journal of Educa-
 tional Technology & Society, 21(2), 220-232. 
 Ma, J., Han, X., Yang, J., & Cheng, J. (2015). Examining the necessary condition for engagement in an
 online learning environment based on learning analytics approach: The role of the instructor. The
 Internet and Higher Education, 24, 26-34. 
 Mangaroska, K., & Giannakos, M. (2018). Learning analytics for learning design: A systematic literature
 review of analytics-driven design to enhance learning. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies,
 12(4), 516-534. 
 Martin, F., & Whitmer, J. C. (2016). Applying learning analytics to investigate timed release in online learn-
 ing. Technology, Knowledge and Learning, 21(1), 59-74.
 Matcha, W., Gašević, D., & Pardo, A. (2019). A systematic review of empirical studies on learning analyt-
 ics dashboards: A self-regulated learning perspective. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies,
 13(2), 226-245. 
 Moher, D., Liberati, A., Tetzlaff, J., Altman, D. G., Altman, D., Antes, G., Atkins, D., Barbour, V., Barrow-
 man, N., & Berlin, J. A. (2009). Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses:
 The PRISMA statement. J. Chin. Integr. Med, 7, 889-896.
 Norris, D. M., & Baer, L. L. (2013). Building organizational capacity for analytics. EDUCAUSE. Retrieved
 from https:// net. educa use. edu/ ir/ libra ry/ pdf/ PUB90 12. pdf
 Pekrun, R. (2014). Emotions and Learning. Belley: International Academy of Education.
 Prasad, D., Totaram, R., & Usagawa, T. (2016). Development of open textbooks learning analytics system.
 International Review of Research in Open and Distributed Learning: IRRODL, 17(5), 215-234.
 Ruipérez-Valiente, J. A., Muñoz-Merino, P. J., Leony, D., & Kloos, C. D. (2015). ALAS-KA: A learning
 analytics extension for better understanding the learning process in the Khan Academy platform. Com-
 puters in Human Behavior, 47, 139-148. 
 Şahin, M., & Yurdugül, H. (2020). Learners' needs in online learning environments and third generation
 learning management systems (LMS 3.0). Technology, Knowledge and Learning https:// doi. org/ 10.
 1007/ s10758- 020- 09479-x 
 Schwendimann, B. A., Rodriguez-Triana, M. J., Vozniuk, A., Prieto, L. P., Boroujeni, M. S., Holzer, A.,
 Gillet, D., & Dillenbourg, P. (2016). Perceiving learning at a glance: A systematic literature review of
 learning dashboard research. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 10(1), 30-41.
 Seufert, S., Meier, C., Soellner, M., & Rietsche, R. (2019). A Pedagogical Perspective on Big Data and
 Learning Analytics: A Conceptual Model for Digital Learning Support. Technology, Knowledge and
 Learning, 24(4), 599-619. 
 Tempelaar, D. T., Rienties, B., & Giesbers, B. (2015). In search for the most informative data for feedback
 generation: Learning analytics in a data-rich context. Computers in Human Behavior, 47, 157-167.
 Tempelaar, D. T., Rienties, B., & Nguyen, Q. (2017). Towards actionable learning analytics using disposi-
 tions. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 10(1), 6-16.
 van Harmelen, M., & Workman, D. (2012). Analytics for learning and teaching. CETIS Analytics Series,
 1(3), 1-41. 
 Van Leeuwen, A., Janssen, J., Erkens, G., & Brekelmans, M. (2015). Teacher regulation of cognitive activi-
 ties during student collaboration: Effects of learning analytics. Computers and Education, 90, 80-94.
 West, D., Tasir., Luzeckyj, A., Kew., Toohey, D., Abdullah, Z., Searle, B., Jumaat, N. F., & Price, R. (2018).
 Learning analytics experience among academics in Australia and Malaysia: A comparison. Australa-
 sian Journal of Educational Technology https:// doi. org/ 10. 14742/ ajet. 3836
 Wise, A. F. (2014). Designing pedagogical interventions to support student use of learning analytics. In
 K. E. Arnold, S. Teasley & A. Pardo (Eds.), Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on
 Learning Analytics and Knowledge (LAK '14) (pp. 203-211). New York: ACM.
 Wise, A. F., Zhao, Y., & Hausknecht, S. N. (2014). Learning analytics for online discussions: Embedded
 and extracted approaches. Journal of Learning Analytics, 1(2), 48-71.
 Wise, A. F., Zhao; Y. & Hausknecht, S. N. (2013). Learning analytics for online discussions: A pedagogical
 model for intervention with embedded and extracted analytics. In Proceedings of the Third Interna-
 tional Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge (Leuven, Belgium) (pp. 48-56). New York,
 NY: ACM 
 Wong, B. T. M., & Li, K. C. (2020). A review of learning analytics intervention in higher education (2011-
 2018). Journal of Computers in Education, 7(1), 7-28.
 Wu, F., Huang, L., & Zou, R. (2015). The design of intervention model and strategy based on the behavior
 data of learners: A learning analytics perspective. In S. K. S. Cheung, L. Kwok, H. Yang, J. Fong, &



23

------------------------------------------------

 
 
 
 427 Learning Analytics in Online Learning Environment: A Systematic…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 3 
 R. Kwan (Eds.), International Conference on Hybrid Learning (pp. 294-301). Springer International
 Publishing. 
 Xing, W., Guo, R., Petakovic, E., & Goggins, S. (2015). Participation-based student final performance pre-
 diction model through interpretable Genetic Programming: Integrating learning analytics, educational
 data mining and theory. Computers in Human Behavior, 47, 168-181.
 Zhang, J. H., Zhang, Y. X., Zou, Q., & Huang, S. (2018). What learning analytics tells us: Group behavior
 analysis and individual learning diagnosis based on long-term and large-scale data. Journal of Educa-
 tional Technology and Society, 21(2), 245-258. 
 Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
 institutional affiliations. 
 Authors and Affiliations 
 Si Na Kew1 · Zaidatun Tasir2 
 1 Language Academy, Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia,
 81310 Skudai, Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia 
 2 School of Education, Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia,
 81310 Skudai, Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia 

