23 June 2026

### What you planned to work on today
- Check why some autocapture events don't have element texts
- Check per-browser activity to see if there are any patterns present that show why some students have low activity 
- Make necessary filters for the charts (as listed in the 17 Jun meeting notes)

### What you actually worked on/got done
- [10am-12pm] Investigated autocapture events without corresponding custom events & blank element text to verify if autocaptures are firing on expected elements
  - Result: element text changes depending on which part of the element is being clicked -- e.g. autocapture produced from clicking a dropdown will have different element text depending on which part of the dropdown was clicked
- [1pm-4pm] Added course week & date range dropdown filters in the 2520 dashboard, and edited the existing insights & views to make them filterable. 
  - Result: currently, a few insights still exist that can't be filtered by date range because of how they're built in SQL, will look through & make the necessary edits 
- [4pm-6pm] Added exercise-specific & paper-specific days to due date views. There are exercise/paper dropdown filters to choose the assignment to display. 
  - Result: the exercise-specific activity is defined by count of events triggered on the page relevant to the assignment (e.g. Exercise 1 activity is counted as all events triggered on the Exercise 1 page). This works for the exercise-specific days to due date chart since each exercise has its own page, but for papers, there aren't paper-specific pages for each paper assignment. What I did was map Paper 1 milestones (prewriting, draft, final) to the single Paper 1 page, since Paper 1's work isn't split across pages. Each Paper 2 milestone maps to the Paper 2 overview page & its corresponding sub-page (e.g. paper2-selection: overview + Article Selection page).

### Current obstacles, questions, or things you need guidance on
- None for now

### The one or two things you plan to start with tomorrow
- Check per-browser activity to see if there are any patterns present that show why some students have low activity 
- For exercise/paper-specific days to due date views, think about capping days to due date? activity == events triggered on the relevant pages only: actual preparation for the assignment. However, the shared pages for the paper-specific chart complicates this, as events triggered on the Paper 1/2 page will be attributed to all paper 1/paper 2 assignments. As such, the values for all paper 1 assignments will be the same --> need to find a way around this?  
