23 June 2026

### What you planned to work on today
- Check per-browser activity to see if there are any patterns present that show why some students have low activity 
- For exercise/paper-specific days to due date views, think about capping days to due date? activity == events triggered on the relevant pages only: actual preparation for the assignment. However, the shared pages for the paper-specific chart complicates this, as events triggered on the Paper 1/2 page will be attributed to all paper 1/paper 2 assignments. As such, the values for all paper 1 assignments will be the same --> need to find a way around this?  

### What you actually worked on/got done
- [10am-11am] There were some remaining insights that weren't able to be filtered by date range; i edited the views used to construct them to enable this.
- [11am-11.30pm] Mapped out some ideas for how to solve the overcounting of overview pages for the paper assignments (cleared up by the meeting, will start working on the views to reflect in the Posthog charts)
- [11.30pm-5pm] For the reliability of duration task: thought of potential reliability issues that could arise from the current method used to compute them & investigated in Posthog to check if they held. I wrote some documentation for this, and will clean it up and upload. 

### Current obstacles, questions, or things you need guidance on
- None for now

### The one or two things you plan to start with tomorrow
- For exercise/paper-specific days to due date views, incorporate the ideas mentioned in today's meeting 
- Recheck the two session-ID anomalies
- Think about what other views can be done? 
