---
title: Paper 1
---
Paper 1 will ask you to explain one or more arguments from Pinker's "The Meaning of Life" in 1500 words or less.

### Assignment purpose

- Academic papers are always part of a larger conversation about their research topic. Papers add to the conversation by explaining to readers what others have said and then presenting their author's own ideas.
- In Paper 1, you will practice the skill of explaining other people's arguments (what "they say") so you can master this skill before writing Paper 2, where you will both explain what others say before presenting and defending an original thesis (what "I say").

### Logistics

- Paper length: 1000-1500 words
- Submit as a Word or RTF document, not PDF
- Follow formatting, citation, and GenAI guidelines
	- Note: unlike the assignments, if you use GenAI for this paper, it will likely involve several chats. Make sure to keep them in the same chat conversation or to give me links to each separate chat.
- Late submission of any part may affect your grade up to 1/3 letter grade per day late.

### Scope

- Pinker's text includes an introductory section making an argument about art in general, followed by additional sections making more specific arguments about particular art forms. These arguments act as illustrations or support for Pinker's general argument. You will explain only part of this chapter, not the whole thing. Choose one of the sections about a specific art form, either visual arts, music, or narrative fiction:
	- 521-26 — introduction
	- 526-528 — visual arts
	- 528-534 — discussion of music structure; do not use
	- 534-538 — music
	- 538-543 — narrative fiction
- Your paper will explain Pinker's general argument from the introduction and one or two sub-arguments about a specific art form from the section you chose. Your thesis should mention both the general and specific arguments you will discuss. Your paper should explain how the later arguments support/relate to/fit together with the more general argument.
- You may discuss one or two arguments about the specific art form you choose, but no more. This limitation is designed to encourage you to discuss each argument in more detail.

### Goals

Your paper's explanation of the source will aim to fulfill several goals that we have discussed and practiced over the last few weeks.

<details><summary>You should convey the source's argument charitably and accurately.
</summary>

- We have discussed in class how charitable summaries of other arguments help us build credibility with readers. Further, uncharitable summaries lead to less significant debates about what various people meant to say rather than more significant discussions regarding what positions are actually correct.
- To accurately explain part of the source, you must balance various goals. Since your summary will not comprehensively restate every idea in the source, you will be careful to convey the source's ideas that are relevant to your thesis without misleading the reader about the scope or meaning of the original source.

</details>

<details><summary>Your explanation should be appropriate for your audience, a non-expert reader.</summary>

- Imagine your reader as an NUSC student who is not in this module and has not studied EP or art.
- We have discussed the problems of ambiguous referents such as "this" and "it" as the subject of sentences. However, even specific terms can be unclear in the context of a paper, and that will confuse your non-expert reader. Choose your words carefully so that the reader, who cannot read your mind, always knows exactly which source claims you are referring to:
	- avoid: "the argument about how sexual selection works" (what argument?)
		- better: "the argument that posting on social media is best explained by the theory of sexual selection".
	- avoid: "the authors' examples and reasoning" (what specific examples and reasoning?)
		- better: "the authors' claim that a Swiss army knife is a good example of..."
	- avoid: "the claim about multilevel selection theory" (which claim about that topic?)
		- better: "the claim that multilevel selection theory can answer questions the gene's-eye-view approach cannot answer"

</details>

<details><summary>The paper should balance summary, paraphrasing, quotation, and explication to make your explanation far clearer and easier to understand than the original source.</summary>

- Summarize by omitting details unnecessary for your purposes.
- Paraphrase to convey ideas using clear wording.
- Quote when needed for credibility and to identify key terms.
- Explicate by defining terms and spelling out implicit ideas or assumptions so your non-expert reader can easily follow the argument.

</details>

<details><summary>Your explanation must reflect your critical reading of the argument rather than a general understanding.</summary>

- Focus on understanding and explaining the specific parts of the source argument, not what it basically or generally says. It is not enough to get the main idea; you must explain the steps the author uses to get to their conclusion.

</details>

<details><summary>Your paper will not challenge the source or argue against its conclusions, but may (optionally) analyze the argument to reveal its limits, gaps, or ambiguities.</summary>

- Although you will not challenge the source argument, while explaining the argument, you might identify ambiguous or confusing claims.
- If the source makes claims that you cannot pin down, that offers an opportunity for you to analyze what the argument might mean or to identify possible gaps in the argument.

</details>

Strategies to use and avoid

<details><summary>Your paper *should* use these strategies:</summary>

- identify Pinker's main research question and explain only the parts of the source that address that specific question
	- Don't forget that an important part of understanding the source's argument is figuring out what academic conversation it is aiming to contribute to and what ideas it is responding to. In this paper, you don't need to mention other sources Pinker is responding to, but thinking about them may help you understand Pinker's arguments.
- allocate enough time to understand Pinker's arguments
	- Since the reading you will respond to is academic writing about a fairly complex topic, you should expect to spend quite a long time reading and taking notes. Your understanding of the argument will develop and deepen as you re-read the source, take notes on it, and write about it.
- start by assuming that Pinker's arguments make sense and identify the claims he uses to build his arguments
	- In this paper, you will analyze specific arguments made by the source. Don't make the mistake of thinking about the source's argument as a general topic or a main idea. Think about the argument in terms of specific claims that are being made, and specific reasons and evidence that are put forth to support these claims.
- see if you can "help" Pinker make his case more persuasively, trying to "steelman" the argument, but make sure that you:
	- keep your summary accurate and don't misrepresent Pinker in trying to explicate his argument
	- make very clear to the reader which arguments are yours and which are Pinker's
- illustrate Pinker's abstract claims with original concrete examples

</details>

<details><summary>Your paper *may* use these strategies (not required, consider these a stretch goal):</summary>

- if you see any potential gaps or problems with the argument, describe these objectively
	- possible problems an author can make:
		- does not explain connections between claims
		- uses a term in different ways in different areas of the argument
		- makes ambiguous claims
		- uses a term in ways that do not match with standard EP usage
- discuss the implications of any specific problems for the argument's persuasiveness or [explanatory power](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Explanatory_power) overall
- identify limits to Pinker's arguments in explaining our enjoyment of some genres/types of art but not other broadly popular types
	- e.g., Pinker mentions different types of music, and one of his arguments explaining the pleasures of music may apply to one type he mentions but not other popular types
	- of course, don't bother discussing examples of very small genres that most people don't like; stick to discussing broadly popular genres

</details>

<details><summary>Your paper *should not* challenge Pinker's argument, so *don't* use these strategies:</summary>

- The paper should not propose an original, alternate answers to Pinker's research question.
- The paper should not synthesize multiple sources
	- don't use any sources other than the assigned source
- The paper should not challenge the source argument to show its errors.
	- don't criticize EP as an research approach
		- This chapter comes from a book that argues for the usefulness of EP in earlier chapters, so we will charitably assume that it already dealt with criticisms of EP in general.
	- don't provide counterarguments or counterexamples showing that Pinker's claims are wrong
		- This paper's goal is to explain (and optionally analyze) the source argument, not to disprove the argument. It is fine to use arguments and examples to show the limits of Pinker's claims, but don't try to show that his claims are wrong.
- The paper should not criticize the source argument for failing to live up to ideal standards for academic arguments in general.
	- don't discuss why some readers would not be convinced by Pinker's claims
		- Paper 1 aims to explain the intended contribution of the source. The source aims to contribute to an academic conversation about evolution and art, not a conversation about what readers are persuaded by various arguments.
	- don't make generic criticisms based on word choice or writing style
		- Paper 1 assumes that the source is not completely self-explanatory and clear. The principle of charity suggests that we should aim to steelman the source argument to focus on whether its most persuasive version is true.
	- don't criticize the source for failing to define every term used
		- Sources can fairly assume that readers know some terms and concepts. Your job is to provide a better explanation of the source argument, so if Pinker is confusing because he doesn't define a term, you can define it in your paper.
	- don't fault the argument for ignoring factors that could also affect or explain art activities
		- Sometimes students argue that a source discusses one causal factor contributing to an effect but ignores other factors, e.g. "Boyd says that cooperation evolved but his argument is weak because it ignores that parents also explicitly teach children to cooperate." This strategy rarely produces an effective challenge to the argument, because every theory or every explanation is going to ignore some factors. No explanation can include everything. It is possible to write a successful academic paper that includes this type of criticism, but it won't work for the Paper 1 assignment.
	- don't argue that the source didn't provide evidence for every single claim in the argument
		- Sources cannot provide evidence for every claim. While it is valid to can argue that a source didn't provide evidence for a claim central to the argument, this approach is not appropriate in the context of this paper since we are just reading one chapter in a whole book.
	- don't argue that the source argument is wrong because it makes claims that are not true in 100% of cases
		- Sources have to generalize to make useful claims about the world, and it is almost never the case that a claim (outside of formal logic) is true 100% of the time. It is ok to discuss counterexamples as showing limits to the source argument, but not to show that the argument is wrong overall.

</details>

### Checklist

Your paper should include:

- an introduction that meets the guidelines discussed in class
- a clear statement of the author's main point/conclusion
- a thesis statement
- correct use and framing of quotes
- an explanation of the main reasons and evidence the source uses to support their argument
- a brief conclusion that simply restates the main points of your paper
- a correctly formatted reference list (which will include only one source, Pinker)
- definitions of key terms other than the following (you can assume your audience knows these terms):
	- evolution
	- species
	- traits/phenotype
	- survival and reproduction
	- genes/genotype
	- fitness
	- natural selection
	- sexual selection
	- note: although you don't need to define these terms, any claims you make with these terms must still be explained to the reader!
	- note: you should (briefly) define the terms 'adaptation' and 'byproduct' if you use them
