Examples

> Saunders coins detectives to be mind-readers because of their exceptional ability to practice Theory of Mind. Theory of Mind is the skill of understanding what others would consider, their mental states and how that impacts one's thinking — it is the understanding that people do not think the same way as another. In detective fiction, a detective's main ability is Theory of Mind. She states that the ability is a '[seemingly] uncanny ability to form accurate theories'. (Saunders 2017) The skills of the detective are further enhanced by how they correlate with the fictional world constructed around them. Saunders uses the main example of C. Auguste Dupin in Edgar Allen Poe's short story The Murders in the Rue Morgue, where Dupin deciphers the mental processes of a sailor who he has never met in perfect detail. (Poe, 1841) A detective's ability to practice Theory of Mind includes being able to detect the actions of even strangers that do not share any similarities — like social class, behaviour, or life experiences — with the detective. Furthermore, Saunders uses Lord Peter Wimsey to display another characteristic: the ability to make inferences beyond the ordinary person. In The Necklace of Pearls, Wimsey finds a single, dropped pin. (Sayers, 1933) To the normal observer no one would recognise its significance, but detectives can easily find how they may relate to the story's puzzle.

Analyzing an example from Clasen, M. (2012). Monsters Evolve: A Biocultural Approach to Horror Stories. _Review of General Psychology_, 16(2), 222–229. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0027918
	- "Horror fiction is a multimillion-dollar industry. For the past decade and a half, horror films have enjoyed a market share of about 5% (not counting the closely related, sometimes overlapping genres of thriller and suspense films; The Numbers—Top- Grossing Genres, 2011). The horror film _Paranormal Activity_ (2007), produced for a measly $15,000, has grossed close to $200,000,000 worldwide (Paranormal Activity, 2011), despite its thin storyline and dubious premise of an angry demon from Hell. (222)"

> Clasen offers three pieces of evidence to demonstrate that horror fiction is popular, but this evidence is not compelling. Although Clasen does not define the concept of "popular", its ordinary meaning suggests something that is liked by most people, and his evidence does not show that horror fiction fits that description. First, he notes that horror fiction "is a multimillion-dollar industry". Yet a monetary figure doesn't demonstrate how many people like horror, and readers can't evaluate this figure without knowing how large the fiction industry is in general. Second, he states that horror films constitute five percent of the market, but this low figure suggests that horror is not very popular when compared to other genres. Finally, he states that a particular horror film has earned $200 million dollars worldwide despite its low budget, "thin storyline", and "dubious premise". His presentation of this example implies that even horror films with many disadvantages can gross huge sums, with the additional implication that horror films without such disadvantages would gross even more money, demonstrating the popularity of horror fiction in general. However, this implied logic is flawed. Many horror films with higher budgets, better storylines, and plausible premises flop at the box office. Clasen's example is actually a remarkable outlier for horror films and is not representative of horror films in general. Thus, this example fails to demonstrate the popularity of horror fiction.
