## Questions to start with :

- In a learning platform website of an academic course, how do we (or what determines) determine the "effectiveness" of the course website's materials? Is it the students' results? Is it the students' behaviors in the website?

- What is "helpfulness"? What is the correlation between "helpfulness" and the class's overall quality?


## Comments

1) We are trying to determine whether the website is helpful for students. What really determines the "helpfulness"? What is "helpfulness?"
- I have a feeling we have lack of data to determine this. Small amount of data to determine a pattern recognition would lead us to inaccurate results due to a term called "overfitting". Then, what can we do with our data now?

<br>

2) According to the papers I have read, there were many researchers who focused on "what" the students' behaviors were when analyzing the log data. However, instead of "what the students did", we should focus more on "how those actions affected the learning outcomes" if our main objective is to improve the course's quality in general (to make sure students are learning what they are supposed to, and the resources provided actually assists them to do so.)


- The data that we have right now is suitable for "what the students did". However, in order for us to determine the "helpfulness" mentioned above, we need to step a bit further and analyze what that action really led the students towards.


***Important***

- Kristen suggested maybe we can group the pages the students accessed during a particular assignment period, and access which pages for which assignment contributed the most. We both thought how the "Grade" data may be a good dependent variable to determine this.
