# Dynamic Self-Regulated Learning (SRL) : Statistical Methodology

<h2>The Problem and The Objective</h2>

- Learning is no longer "static", but a dynamic "event" called Self-Regulated Learning (SRL).
- Researchers used log file and sequential analysis to track this, but methodologies in other papers were fragmented, and researchers were not sharing their algorithmic parameters.

- The objective is to propose a foundational methodological framework. They are trying to align the theoretical psychology of learning with the mathematical algorithms used to analyze log files.

<h2>Methodology</h2>

- Phase 1 (pre-processing & action libraries) : the raw log data (JSON from PostHog in our case), must be structured into Time Stamped Events (TSE).

- Phase 2 (mining and characterization) : Researchers must explicitly define time constraints (how much time can pass before two clicks are no longer considered part of the same sequence) and frequency thresholds (what percentage of students must perform a sequence for it to be deemed mathematically significant.

- Phase 3 (analysis) : the extracted sequences are treated as dependent or independent variables to measure their association with covariates, like final grades or experimental conditions (using Pearson Independence Chi-Square tests or optimal matching edit distance. 


<h2>Significance of the Findings</h2>

- The actual cognitive process of students are inside their brain. So, the behavioural events would be merely proxies. If researchers do not transparently define the pedagogical rules linking a click to a thought process, their mathematical models will be theoretically meaningless

- This ensures how mathematical models such as the markov chains discussed earlier in the analyzed papers, actually reflect human learning within our website.



<h2>How this can be used for our Project</h2>

1) Building an "Action Library"
- We can group specific URLs and actions into psychological categories. For example, "rageclick" on an assignment page might be recoded in our database as "monitoring_failure" and the frequently revisitng the "grading_info" page before the assignment page can be labeled as "forethought_planning". This lets us Professor know if the students are failing because of a lack of planning versus a lack of comprehension.

2) Distinguishing Sequentiality from Temporality

- there is a distinction between the order of events and the time elapsed between them.

- view_assignment -> nutshell_1 is different if the time elapsed for this event is 20 seconds VS 20 minutes

3) Establishing Rigorous Mathematical Thresholds
- when we define what constitutes a "rage click" or an "exploration %" in PostHog, we cannot just guess. If we set a threshold that a frequent sub-sequence requires 25% of the 2420 cohort to exhibit it, we must be able to justify that parameter.




