# Sequence-Based Markov Machine Learning Classification

<h2>Research Objective and Problem Statement</h2>

<h4>Problem : The researchers identified a major flaw in how educational telemetry is analyzed</h4>

- Machine Learning is great at predicting "if" a student will fail , but it relies on static aggregated counts ("total logins") and acts as a "black box", offering no pedagogical explanation. 

- Markov models are great at explaining the temporal flow of learning (the "how"), but they completely break down when faced with "inter-sequence heterogeneity". So, if a student in the test data does something rare that was not in the training data, the Markov classifier crashes.

<h4>Objective : To create a hybrid model that can predict student success using the chronological flow of their clicks, while remaining mathematically explainable and resilient to highly varied, unpredictable student behavior.</h4>

<br>

<h2>Methodology: <b>seqMAC</b> Framework</h2>

1) Phase 1 : Dynamic Feature Generation Feature Generation (Markov Part) : Instead of counting "how many times" a student clicked, they use Markov Chain Models to calculate the <b>transition probabilities</b> between clicks for every individual student. For example, if a student never performs any transition, the probability would be wrriten as 0 in the matrix. This solves the heterogeneity crash problem.


2) Phase 2 : Prediction (Machine Learning) : they feed this matrix of transition probabilities into a supervise machine learning algorithm called the Stochastic Gradient Boosting algorithm to classify students into "High Performers" and "Low Performers" depending on their transitions within the website.


3) Phase 3 : Post-Hoc Interpretation : To avoid the "black box", they apply Explainable AI techniques such as the "Permutation Feature Importance and SHAP values), which tells them exactly "which specific behavioral transitions were most responsible for a student passing or failing.

<hr>


<h1>Connection to our Project</h1>

<h3>Solving the heterogeneous problem</h3>

- events like "rage clicks", for example, may be the actions users rarely do. If we use standard mining algorithms, the analysis may fail or give inaccurate results. We can use seqMAC algorithm so that we can label 0 for those who do not go through these actions at all.


<h3>Moving Beyond PostHog's Aggregate Dashboards</h3>

- what PostHog is doing right now, looks like it is a static aggregation of data ("time spent per page", "clicks per student"). By applying the Dynamic Feature Generation mentioned in Phase 1, we can answer questions such as "what is the probability of the student doing the assignment more accurately after opening/reading this nutshell?". (Instead of "how many times did the student open the nutshell?)



<h3>We can understand "why" some students may fail</h3>

- Using seqMAC's Phase 3, we can objectively rank the UI/UX flows that lead to poor grade / performance.
- For example, let's say the transition [rage_click_on_assignment1_page] -> [open_nutshell_3] can be analyzed using SHAP analysis and conclude that it is the predictor for a "low performer" of the class.
- So, it would be able for us to say that assignment 1 page and relying on the nutshell_3 is an indicator that the explanations in assignment 1 is not clear, leading to lower performance.















