# Summary : Different Approaches using Learning Analytics for Student Behavior in an educational setting

<br>

<h2> 1) Using Statistics : Stochastic Dynamic System </h2>

- We define students' behaviors in the website as <b>"states"</b>. (In PostHog, it looks like it's called "events")
- The interactions of the students are basically their digital footprints within the website. So, we would not only be looking at "WHAT" students are doing, but "HOW" they are thinking and where the course design is failing them.

- If we find students going back and forth in a particular part of our website, this would imply how the content in that section is not clear. The author of this paper utlizes statstical analysis (stochastic process) in order to mathmatically explain this phenomena.



<h4>How Stochastic Analysis would be helpful</h4>

1) Stochastic Advantage

- let's say a student reads a main page, opens nutshell, closes it, keeps scrolling, but eventually comes back to the nutshell and re-reads the main text. This is the inefficiency we wanted to investigate.

- S would be the "state space" containing these micro actions : S = {read_base_text, open_nutshell, rage_click..}
- Then, we can construct a transition matrix P where each entry Pij is a probability.
- This would let us know how we should reduce some parts that would enhance the overall understanding of the user of the page(?) how?




<h4>Connection to our website</h4>

- Looks like PostHog has a "User Paths Insight" feature and the "Sankey Diagrams" that gives us an idea of which specific pages users visited in that day. Well, it would be something like understanding the sequential events users goes through, which lets us know which sites would help the users to finish a specific assignment.

1) Extract data using HogQL (SQL) (e.g. from 'pageview_course_info', 'opened_nutshell', 'rageclick')

2) Define the states
- {s1: reading_main_content, s2: interacting_with_nutshell, s3: experiencing_UI_friction(rage_click)}


3) Using the transition probability formula, calculate the likelihood of student moving from state i to state j

$$
P_{ij} = \frac{N_{ij}}{\sum_k N_{ik}}
$$


- where Nij is the raw count of times any student in the 2420 cohort transitioned directly from state i to j
- and the denominator is the total number of times students left state i for any other states than j.



4) Form a matrix P that shows all the probabilities of students staying in a particular state
- e.g : if a student stated in the state s1 for 70% of his time s2: 20%, and s3: 10%, then, that row of that student would be [0.7, 0.2, 0.1]. So, the whole matrix represents the percentage of time that the students from the course stayed in the particular state.




5) Then we calculate the Stationary Distribution, which would give us the effectiveness of our course website's design for education. 

- This tells us the long-term, <b>"expected"</b> proportion of time students spend in each state, regardless of where they started

You find this by solving the left-eigenvector problem for the transition matrix:


<br>


$$
\pi P = \pi
$$

Subject to the constraint that all probabilities must sum to 1:

$$
\sum_i \pi_i = 1
$$

<br>


so, we just have pi = [pi_1, pi_2, pi_3], and then multiply that by the matrix P, which we got from PostHog data and set that equal to the vector pi. Then, using the system of linear equations, we can get the values of the components of pi. (where pi_1 + pi_2 + pi_3 = 1)


<br>


However, as the matrix P would be large for multiple dimensions of data, we can use python's scientific computing library such as numpy to help us calculate the large matrix




<hr>

<br>
<br>

<h2>Brief Summary</h2>

Let's say we have thousands of events from our PostHog logs, and we are analyzing the raw student clickstreams

1) Matrix P : How many times went from one specific state to another, and converting those numbers into probabilities

2) Stationary distribution \pi : What average student may spend in each part of the course site over the long run

We use python libraries such as pandas and numpy to go through this calculation : 

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np

# 1. Load the raw PostHog data
df = pd.read_csv('events.csv')

# 2. Sort chronologically per student
df = df.sort_values(by=['person_id', 'timestamp'])

# 3. Create a new column showing the very next action the student took
# We group by person_id so we don't accidentally link one student's last click to a different student's first click.
df['next_event'] = df.groupby('person_id')['event'].shift(-1)

# Drop the last event for each student (since there is no "next" event to transition to)
df = df.dropna(subset=['next_event'])
```





<br>
<br>
