# Paper 5 : Using Google Analytics to Improve the Course Website of a Database Course

<h3>Introduction</h3>

- As online education continues to grow, instructors need to find new ways to enhance student learning online and to understand students' interactions with their electronic learning environment.

- Survey finding by Allen and Seaman shows that 90% of academic leaders beleive how it is very likely that students will be enrolled in at least one online course.

- However, as the usage of online tools increase, one concern arises. Instructors do not always have the liberty to observe their students in a face-to-face setting.

- Hence, there is a need for monitoring students' progress and capturing their interactions with online learnin content. The authors of this paper suggests that Learning Analytics(LA) is a good solution to address this problem.


<h3>Definitions & Objective</h3>

- "Analytics is about understanding, interpreting, and communicating data".
- In broad terms, data mining is "methodologies that extract useful and actionable information from large datasets".
- So, Learning Analytics refers to the collection and analysis of relevant data that students create when they interact with their learning environment.

- The First International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge define LA as "the measurement, collection, analysis and reporting of data about learners and their contexts, for purposes of understanding and optimizing learning and the environments in which it occurs.

- Objective of the paper : Determine whether Google Analytics, a more general analytics tool, can be customized to aid the evaluation of the learning system or course website based on the information that Google Analytics gathers. (Basically finding for improvements in the learning systems or course website)


<h3>Google Analytics</h3>

- The purpose of Google Analytics is to analyze, track, and measure website traffic. It provides tools that offer unique metrics (also known as quantitative measurements) to monitor how the user is interacting with the website.

- Data that can be collected from Google Analytics : user data, session data, traffic sources, platform or device used to access site, page tracking, content grouping, site speed, social interactions, app tracking, event tracking, and "many more" (they didn't specify it in the paper).

-  It can also realize which device the user is using to access the site. So, this gives a great insight into how to design the layout of the website based on how students are accessing it.


<h3>Types of Data in Google Analytics</h3>

- Two types of data : dimensions and metrics
- Dimensions : describes the characteristics of the users, their sessions, and actions such as Pageviews, Bounce Rate, Entrances, % exit, etc.

- Metrics : They are similar, but measures the quantitative measurement of users, sessions, and actions. 

- Every report contains both types of data.

- The good thing about Google Analytics is that it takes a "dynamic approach" to the type of data recorded compared to traditional learning analytic tools. For example, it will automatically track how students are interacting with the site through session engagement.


<h3>Methodology</h3>

- Target website where Google Analytics was used was Penn State University's Database course.
- Website is intended to become an online interactive textbook, aiming to bring databases to life with a unique problem based approach.
- Website was built using WordPress, where the students can access the website anywhere, anytime with any devices.

- Just like our website, the website also consisted of in-page exercises and assessments, allowing the students to test their knowledge as they go.

- Each page has a Google Analytics' tracking code built to it, allowing the analytic tool to capture in-page statistics throught the use of cookies and JavaScript. Just like ours, the tracking code is linked to an account created with Google Analytics that allows the account owners to view the statistical data.


<h3>Data Collection</h3>

- After each weekly meeting, the data recorded by GA were downloaded and exported to an Excel file.
- In addition, the data were generated into a custom report in order to analyze dimensions and metrics that are relevant to the study's objective of determining whether Google Analytics can be customized to help out evaluate the learning system.

- Individual Dimensions : Page, Date, Operating System, Session Duration, and Hour
- Individual Metrics : pageviews, bounce rates, and average time on page

- Each of the website's pages were categorized based on the level of interactive elements that the page included.

- The purpose of categorizing the website's pages was to determine the relationships between the collected data (dimensions) and the interaction attributes of the website's pages. So, we can determine the attributes of pages, which the students engaged the most on.

- In order to categorize the pages, each page was coded based on these attributes : quizzes, exercises, code examples, images, or videos. So, what they did was if a page contained 3 of these attributes, for example, they added 3 points. If it contained none, 0 point.
  
- The pages were also examined further for the number of words, images, and videos


<h3>Results</h3>

- The more interactive features the page had, the more views and interactions there were within the students. More attribute points the page had, more interaction.

- So, contents solely relying on text had the least interaction and views from the students. The authors suggest that if the teacher wants the students to engage more in text-based pages, make it so that the quizzes or assignments are based on those contents.

- Having an interactive quiz in the page increases the pageview time.

- In addition, there were exercises that students can check their knowledge on in the page, but it did not increase the pageview for the page as the exercises were not graded, nor it told the students answers at the end.

- Average time spent on page increases with images. Study shows that students took more time to study these illustrative images.


- For student engagement, quizzes were shown to be the most important feature, where students tried to learn their responses.


<h3>Conclusion</h3>

- Due to the results GA provided, it can be reasonably determined that GA is an effective alternative as a Learning Analytics tool.
- GA's results resulted in understanding how to better tailor the course website to the students' learning.
- What they did was basically determine which components of the websites are the most engaging. I think they are saying that components that are not that engaging should be deleted.
- Students engaged the most in pages that had the quiz feature, which gave instant feedback about their knowledge and helped them learn the contents.

