# General Thoughts / Questions about using Markov Chain for Student Behavior Analysis

- Main doubt / question from me : I understand how we can generate a transition matrix that describes the probabilities of which another state "a" student is going to transition to. But, my question is, "just because one student had this transition, what makes us generalize that other students would go through that path too?"

- In addition, let's say we can generalize by counting the frequency of a particular path of transition between states. What makes us say that the path would be the most "optimal" path for success? Simply put, how do we know that path is the best one for students to learn the contents "most" effectively?

- What are the factors for "successful" learning in an educational environment?


# Additional questions to consider while researching 

- What questions are we asking? What questions are we supposed to ask?
- What is worth measuring or tracking in the field of LA?


# Potential Research Questions

- What are the most highly probable navigational pathways (state transitions) that distinguish high-performing students from struggling students?

- Instead of grouping students by final grades, what distinct learning strategy archetypes (nutshell crammers, mthodical readers) naturally emerge from the transition matrices of the cohort?

- How do self-regulated learning strategies shift chronologically over the 14-week semester?

- Is there a measureable point in the semester where the cohort stops learning deeply and becomes burnt out?

- Which interface lowers students' concentration?


# What may be worth measuring

1) Transition Probabilities

- Instead of tracking "how many times something was opened", we should track the exact probability matrix of what happens immediately after something was opened. Learning is a dynamic chain of events, and the most critical metric would be the link between two consecutive actions.


2) Event-Level Time Thresholds

- Instead of tracking "average time spent on site", we should start tracking the duration boundaries. So, we can mathematically define the minimum time required for a "genuine attempt". If a student spends 4 seconds on a complex text, that should not be regarded as "read" event. It would be more accurate to call it "Skip" or "Skim".


3) Stratgy Trajectories

- I may be inefficient to track the students' "average" behavior over the whole semester. It may be better if we have a weekly or bi-weekly cluster movements. We can track a single student's migration path across the semester (so, if a student is group in one of the high-engagement group in week 2, but gets far away in week 8, this can tell us how the student is losing track).

- but in this case, how would we take action after figuring it out?





















