# Educational Technology Approach toward Learning Analytics: Relationship between Student Online Behavior and Learning Performance in Higher Education

- They use multiple linear regression analysis to determine which factors infuence student's academic achievement. I guess this is more of a methodology paper.

- The authors suggest that Learning Analytics is : "a systematic process, which includes data collection-analysis, achievement prediction, and intervention treatment".

- For instance, Purdue's Course Signals Model includes four components : academic performance, interaction with LMS, prior academic data such as high school GPA, and student characteristics such as age or residency.


- They say that everything except for the interaction with LMS cannot be controlled by the educators.

- Things like prior education, student characteristics cannot be changed, despite they are a significant factor for learning outcomes.


<h3>Objective and Research Questions</h3>

- This study determines which controllable components need to be included in learning analytics to help learners improve their learning achievement continuously.

- Research question : Do the six independent variables (login frequency in LMS, total studying time in LMS, regularity of learning interval in LMS, number of downloads, interactions with peers, and interactions with instructor) predict learners' academic achievement?


<h3>Methodology</h3>

- They had this "Understanding of Science of Public Administration" course, where 20% of the final grade was assigned for online discussion participation in LMS, and the instructor let the students use LMS to download course materials.

- Log data were fetched from Moodle, and they set "final_grade" as dependent variables.
- As they had multiple independent variables, they used multiple linear regression analysis and found out that the "total studying time" had a significant correlation with final grade. In addition, the number of downloads of the course materials also had some significance, but login frequency and interaction with instructor did not predict the final grade.


<h3>Conclusion</h3>

- Okay, this paper is biased on Korean female students in one particular Korean women's university. The data obviously is biased, which would probably overfit the model, which means that it would over generalize studetns' behaviors in MOOC platforms with just 84 students in experiment. 

- This is a bad methodology.
