# Tracking Changes in Students' Online Self-Regulated Learning Behaviors and Achievement Goals using Trace Clustering and Process Mining

<h3>The experiment for this was done for an online course, but the mathematical methodology may help out.</h3>

<h3>Research Objective & Problem Statement</h3>

- Learning is dynamic, as we have been stating throughout all the papers we looked at. A student's strategy to learn from week 1 may be different from that of week 11, due to the change in content difficulty, burnout, or deadlines. Furthermore, in highly structured platforms like online modules, it restricts analysis on students' behaviors because it limits what the students can click on.

- Objective : to capture this temporal evolution, the researchers aimed to map how students' SRL behaviors changed from the beginning, to the middle, to the end of a semester-long online course. 


<h3>Methodology</h3>

1) Event-level clustering (The Duration Filter) : Instead of treating each clicks equally, they used Finite Mixture Modeling (FMM) on the time duration of events. They mathematically calculated a cutoff threshold to distinguish between a "normal attempt" (where the student actually tried) and a "short attempt" (where a student was just guessing or copying). They also filtered out "click-throughs" where students opened instructional material for less than 35 seconds.


2) Module level clustering : They grouped a student's interaction on a single assignment into a specific strategy cluster. they created a custom distance metric based on six theoretical SRL features, such as: Did they study before attempting? Was their very first attempt a "short" (guessing) attempt?. They then used Process Mining to draw causal nets (flowcharts) of these strategies (e.g., Causal Net 2: "Attempt $\rightarrow$ Study $\rightarrow$ Attempt $\rightarrow$ Pass", versus Causal Net 4: "Short Attempt $\rightarrow$ Pass").


3) Sequence level clustering : Finally, they tracked these module strategies across the weeks. They compared the clusters from Week 2 against Week 7 and Week 14 to see if a student who was a "Methodical Studier" at the start devolved into a "Guesser" by the end.


<h3>Relationship to our Project</h3>

1) Mathematical Time-Thresholding

- Before getting our probabilities for seqMAC transition matrix, since even when a user visits a particular page, the time duration may be different for each students. For example, if student A was in the assignment page for 3 seconds and another stuedent B was in the page for 3 hours, it would be reasonable to guess that student B actually tried to attempt the assignment that day thoroughly.

- so, we make a calculated cut-off to determine whether the student actually interacted with the contents. For example, we can say Assignment_Guess, Assignment_Attempt can be the two ways to classify students depending on their time at the assignments page.



2) "Burnout" Tracking : identifying where students get lost, frustrated, tired

- we can try to identify when the students get tired. We can run our transition matrices separately for month 1 and month 3. Then, we can use that matrix to determine how during month 1, students' transitions were steady, but during month 3, if we see students rapidly rage clicking nutshells and going to pages for several seconds only, we can realize how stressed the students are during month 3, hence we can give less homework or assignments and adjust their stress.














