# Summary : Different Approaches using Learning Analytics for Student Behavior in an educational setting


<h2> 1) Using Statistics : Stochastic Dynamic System </h2>

- We define students' behaviors in the website as <b>"states"</b>. (In PostHog, it looks like it's called "events")
- The interactions of the students are basically their digital footprints within the website. So, we would not only be looking at "WHAT" students are doing, but "HOW" they are thinking and where the course design is failing them.


A) Identifying the Bottlenecks using Transition Matrices
- If we find students going back and forth in a particular part of our website, this would imply how the content in that section is not clear.

HOW DO WE ANALYZE THIS (GRAPHS, FORUMULAS) ? 





B) Modelling Uncertainty and "Lost" States
- In mathematics, "entropy" is a term that indicates high degree of disorder.
- So, if a student's clickstream and their navigational entropu is high, it would mean that they are clicking randomly across the syllabus, assignments, or resources.

- Hence, if we find any high entropy sequences, we can identify where the website's user interface is hindering learning.

AGAIN, HOW DO WE CALCULATE THIS ENTROPY? ALSO, HOW WOULD WE BE ABLE TO USE THE DATA FROM POSTHOG TO ANALYZE THIS




C) Comparing Optimal vs Sub-Optimal Trajectories

- We can group students based on their final performance and map out the aggregate sequence pathways for the "high performaers" versus the "struggling" students
- We can compare the two groups' actions by analyzing the log data, and then see which trajectories are the most effective.





D) Real-Time Intervention
- We can use the state spaces and sequences that led a student to fail in order to help out students who are failing.
- So, if a particular student's "events" are similar to that of a known failure trajectory, the system can alert the student can be notified to take additional actions that recommends the "successful" trajectories.























