# Learning Analytics Methods, Benefits, and Challenges in Higher Education: A Systematic Literature Review


<h3>Introduction</h3>

- "Analytics" refers to the scientific process that examines data to formulate conclusions and to present paths to make decisions.

- "Learning Analytics" : Process of systematically collecting and analyzing large data sets from online sources for the purpose of improving learning processes

- Educational Data Mining : focuses on developing and implementing methods with a goal of promoting discoveries from data in educational settings. So, it tries to find patterns in a large dataset related to students' actions. 

- EDM can also be regarded as pattern discovery as well as predictive modeling.

- Academic Analytics : application of the principles and tools of business intelligence to academia with the goal of improving educational institutions' decision-making and performance

- Academic Analytics combine large datasets, statistical techniques, and predictive modeling.

<br>

<h3>Difference between Learning Analytics and Educational Data Mining</h3>


- Learning Analytics uses predictive models that provide actionable information. It is said to be an interdisciplinary approach based on data processing, technology-learning enhancement, educational data mining, and visualization.

- Educational Data Mining tries to generate systematic and automated responses to learners.

- While LA focuses on the application of known methods and models to address issues affecting student learning and the organizational learning system, EDM focuses on development of new computational data analysis methods.


<br>

<h3>Some successful cases of LA relevant to our case</h3>

- Purdue University : used predictive modeling based on data collected from the course management system to identify students at risk and provide intervention.

- University of Alabama : Improved student retention by forming a predictive model for students at risk based on the large dataset of learners' demographics.

- Northern Arizona University connected resource use, risk level, and students' achievement by forming a predictive model to identify which students would benefit from which resource.


<br>

<h3>Methodology</h3>

- The authors targeted empirical studies and literature reviews published in peer-reviewed journals from the year 2000 onward.

- Searches were conducted in major databasees including Google Scholar, ERIC, ProQuest, and EBSCO HOST.
- Out of 112, the researchers filtered the selection down to 44 relevant studies.

<br>


<h3>Main Points / Core Concepts</h3>

<h4>1) Methods Used in Learning Analytics</h4>

- Learning analytics functions as a continuous, cyclical "macro-level" process: educators collect data, process that data into measureable metrics, execute an intervention based on the result, and then collect new data to start the cycle again.

They use : 

A) Visual Data Analysis : This involves using advanced computational graphics to expose patterns and trends within massive datasets, utlizing tools like Gapminder or IBM Many Eyes

B) Educational Data Mining

- Prediction : Developing models (like decision trees or regression) to forecast variables based on other data elements.

- Clustering : Discovering natural, logical grouping within a dataset when the exact categories are initially unknown

- Relationship Mining : Identifying the strongest relationships or correlations between a large number of variables.

- Discovery with Models : Using human reasoning and prediction models to generalize data across different contexts

- Separation of Data for "Human Judgement" : Distilling and visually displaying data (something like a learning curve) so humans can easily identify and classify patterns.


<h4>Benefits of Learning Analytics</h4>

1) Curriculum and Course Optimization : Institutions can identify course offerings that align with student needs, predict graduate enrollment numbers, and map data to pinpoint weaknesses in student comprehension to improve the curriculum

2) Personalized Learning : Since LA systems can track students' activities in the web, it can provide real-time feedback or "stoplight" warnings to at-risk students who learn at different paces.

3) Instructor Evaluation : By tracking how instructors use technology and online library resources, analysts can determine areas for educator development to improve student-instructor interactions

4) Post-Educational Success : Data can be used to predict graduate employment rates and align academic programs more closely with current industry and occupational demands.



<h4>The Challenges of Learning Analytics</h4>

1) Data Integrity and Analysis : Erroneous data such as a "fake student profile" would create bad data flows that would result in creating a significant margin of error.

2) Disconnection from Learning Sciences : LA is not being leveraged optimally because it lacks a strong connection to learning sciences. So, developers must find ways to actively connect data with cognition, metacognition, and pedagogy. (How are actions of students correlated to the degree of understanding of the pages? How can we determine the percentage of depth of comprehension of the students?)

3) Ethical, Legal, and Privacy Risks : Tracking student behavior introduces an ethical dilemma. Well, technically, if we don't have their consents and don't promise them their anonymity, this would be true. but we are using them.



<h3>Conclusion</h3>

- Learning analytics is more of an interdisciplinary field that would be effective for future education, but it is still in its early development stages.

- Institutions muse adopt data-driven approaches to enhance decision-making and allocate resources efficiently.

- To resolve the growing security and privacy challenges as datasets expand, the authors strongly recommend the integration of biometric services (I guess this is not relevant to ours) for user authentication.

- Institutions must balance the drive for improved educational outcomes with strict transparency and accountability safeguards to protect student privacy.
