# Paper 5 : Using Google Analytics to Improve the Course Website of a Database Course

<h3>Introduction</h3>

- As online education continues to grow, instructors need to find new ways to enhance student learning online and to understand students' interactions with their electronic learning environment.

- Survey finding by Allen and Seaman shows that 90% of academic leaders beleive how it is very likely that students will be enrolled in at least one online course.

- However, as the usage of online tools increase, one concern arises. Instructors do not always have the liberty to observe their students in a face-to-face setting.

- Hence, there is a need for monitoring students' progress and capturing their interactions with online learnin content. The authors of this paper suggests that Learning Analytics(LA) is a good solution to address this problem.


<h3>Definitions & Objective</h3>

- "Analytics is about understanding, interpreting, and communicating data".
- In broad terms, data mining is "methodologies that extract useful and actionable information from large datasets".
- So, Learning Analytics refers to the collection and analysis of relevant data that students create when they interact with their learning environment.

- The First International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge define LA as "the measurement, collection, analysis and reporting of data about learners and their contexts, for purposes of understanding and optimizing learning and the environments in which it occurs.

- Objective of the paper : Determine whether Google Analytics, a more general analytics tool, can be customized to aid the evaluation of the learning system or course website based on the information that Google Analytics gathers. (Basically finding for improvements in the learning systems or course website)


<h3>Google Analytics</h3>

- The purpose of Google Analytics is to analyze, track, and measure website traffic. It provides tools that offer unique metrics (also known as quantitative measurements) to monitor how the user is interacting with the website.

- Data that can be collected from Google Analytics : user data, session data, traffic sources, platform or device used to access site, page tracking, content grouping, site speed, social interactions, app tracking, event tracking, and "many more" (they didn't specify it in the paper).

-  It can also realize which device the user is using to access the site. So, this gives a great insight into how to design the layout of the website based on how students are accessing it.


<h3>Types of Data in Google Analytics</h3>

- Two types of data : dimensions and metrics
- Dimensions : describes the characteristics of the users, their sessions, and actions such as Pageviews, Bounce Rate, Entrances, % exit, etc.

- Metrics : They are similar, but measures the quantitative measurement of users, sessions, and actions. 

- Every report contains both types of data.

- The good thing about Google Analytics is that it takes a "dynamic approach" to the type of data recorded compared to traditional learning analytic tools. For example, it will automatically track how students are interacting with the site through session engagement.


<h3>Methodology</h3>


- 



















