# Analysis of Students' Behaviour in the Web-based Distance Learning Environment (basically a statistics paper)


<h2>Introduction</h2>

- E-Learning systems provides a question into the foreground : "how should some processes be used and controlled both to have their course reliable and to achieve the demanded result?"

- Virtual learning environments can demonstrate and visualize subject matter more clearly and comprehensible. It also develops students' logical thinking, increase their imagination, and help them to solve various problems.

- Learning Management System (LMS) is generally used in most institutions providing web-based learning. LMS is said to be used in universities as a supporting tool for education.



<h2>Methodology</h2>

- Aim : evaluate the course quality using various approaches

1) Entrance Questionnaire : served to get the non-anonymous information about the statistical sample from the point of view of age, employment, and practice

2) Final (output) questionnaire : providing feedback about the quality of content, tests, used means, process of study, method and effectiveness of study as well as the attitude of the participants toward e-learning

- Their focus : how users studied in the course, what was their navigation, which materials they accessed, etc - I guess this was somehow related to our project after all. You were right.


3) Usage Analysis : provides influential second source of information. They were able to get interesting and useful course usage information.

- They talk about how they used log file to analyze the sequential behavioral data (this is us!!)
- Analysis of log file formulated **association rules** of participants' behavior in the e-course as well as the sequence and frequency of electronic sources accessess.



<h2>Their definition of "Data Mining"</h2>

- "Analysis of lon-on files is method of data mining". Data mining is a process that is used to identify hider, unexpected pattern or relationships in large quantities of data"

- Professor, I also found this in the machine learning book that I am reading about data mining : "Data mining is digging into large amounts of data to discover hidden patter" (reference : Hands-on Machine learning with scikit-learn and pytorch)

- So, I guess that can be the definition of data mining, which resolves the confusion we had during the meeting.

- In addition, data mining predicts future trends and behaviors, while it scours databases for hidden patterns, finding predictive information that experts might overlook because it falls outside their expectations.

- Their log files were created by Moodle. Then, they cleaned their data by "deleting invalid data, converting system time(?), and creating categories of actions".



<h2>Usage Analysis</h2>

- They use association rules analysis, where they deal with non-sequential data. They mainly analyze transactions instead of sequences. This means that they are ignoring the "timeline" of when a user clicked buttons, and instead just looking at what kind of cluster of categories a single user visited during the observed period.

- In the case transactions, they represent a variety of visited categories of the course by one user.


<h3>Web Graph</h3>

The components were : 

A) Node Size : Represents the "support" of an element (how frequently that specific category was visited overall)
B) Line Width : Represents the "support" of the rule (how frequently two categories are visited together
C) Line Brightness : Represents the "lift" of the rule

- They found out these facts :

1) Most heavily visited distinct areas were the main page, quiz selftest, forum, and practice assignments.
2) The metric of "lift" is critical here to measure "interestingness". A lift > 1 means the categories occur together more frequently than if they were statistically independent.
3) "Study material" and "help" categories have a lift = 1.9, for example. This proves studetns rarely use the help section, which means it is heavily tied to interacting with the study materials.


<h3>Definition of Lift and Support in Data Mining</h3>

- Support measure the raw frequency. It simply tell you what percentage of total users visited a specific section.
- Lift measures the strength of the associateion between two categories. The paper refers this to as the "rate of interestingness".


- So, lift answers a specific probability question : "How many times more frequently do these two categories occur together compared to if they had absolutely nothing to do with each other?"

- One difference this experiment is from previous research I have read, is that it is non-sequential.


<h3>Association Rule Mining & Conditional Probability (explanation of the math used in this paper)</h3>

- Confidence : it tells us the probability that a user visits a particular section "given that" they visited the previous section. For example, a probability of the user to be in the main page and navigates to the assignment page.

- Lift : measures the ratio of their observed joint probability to their expected joint probability under the assumption of statistical independence.


- Oh! so, let's assume the student visited both the "Help" section and the "Study Material" section. So, lift finds out if a user who visited the "Study Material" section also visited the "Help" section. Since the researchers assumed that every events are independent, we just see if how "likely" the event "visiting the Help section" is when the user visited the "Study Material".

- So, the authors are evaluating the strength of co-occurrence within a defined set, instead of a probability of a sequential pathway, which is different from our Markov Chain approach.


<h3>Observation : Does a student's demographic and professional background dictate how they use an e-elarning platform?</h3>

1) Age : older participants used the "quiz selftest" and "forum" sections, while yonger participants interacted more with practice assignment and study mateerial categories.

2) Length of Practical Experience : more experienced users used "quiz selftest" while less experienced users used "practice assignment" section.

3) Method of further education : university learners were more used to this environment, so they utilized various activities in the learning environment, but self learners stuck to the fundamental activities like "practice assignment".




<h2>Conclusion, Relevance to our Research</h2>

- If the platform is used for completing assignments and communication, researchers figured out how the interaction increased. So, for students, if the pages were related to their final grades, it would have a lot of interactions.

- Having features like practice tests / assessments were effective as students would use this a lot for exams.

- Ultimately, applying data mining to usage logs makes the underlying behavior transparent, allowing course designer to create more effective and targeted learning environments.

- For our research, it would be important to ask "what would the naviagations look like?", "what are the associations present in our system?"

- This paper relied heavily on rigorous statistical methods. Hence, it is reasonable to say that in order for us to understand something about students' behavior, mathematical rigor is required. (especially probability and stochastic process)























