<h2>Educational Process Mining (EPM) : Discovering Student Learning Paths: An Educational Process Mining Approach in Moodle and research in the Interdisciplinary Description of Complex Systems (2025)</h2>

- EPM is at the intersection of data mining and business process management.
- This method ingests event logs (timestamp, user ID, events) to automatically construct directed graphs of student behavior. Then, the researchers use EPM to compare the path the instructor intended students to take against the path students actually took.

- Research goal : Analyzing learning activities students engage the most, and find specific areas that the students might be struggling. Being able to identify this would help us enhance the overall educational experience.

Educational Process Mining (EDM) consists of 3 main steps:
1) Data Extraction : they extracted a lot of event logs from a programming course, converted then to XES (irrelevant format in our case), and they mapped the data to three critical attributes: case_id, activity_key, timestamp

2) Process Discovery : Used algorithms such as the Heuristic Miner and the Inductive Miner in order to automatically generate visual process models that mapped out the actual sequences of student activities.

3) Conformance Checking : Used "token-based-replay" where it measures the "fitness percentage" by comparing the generated process model against the actual, raw event logs to see how well they matched.


<h2>What can be helpful for our project</h2>

1) Conformance Checking (Fitness Analysis) : Instead of looking solely on the PostHog's "Paths" feature to see where students go, you can define the "intended" learning path for the course.
- Then, we can run our PostHog cohort data against this intended model using Token-Based Replay.
- If our fitness percentage is low, you have empirical proof that the website's UI or the course's instructional design is failing to guide students effectively
 

2) "Noise" as a metric for Cognitive Load
- The researchers identified the high levels of visual "noise" in a process model (where students frequently switch activities)
- Indicated areas can be regarded as where the students were struggling the most.
