# Academic Conversation examples

To revise:

> Some people argue that the ability to enjoy stories is a by-product of certain cognitive adaptations (Dubourg and Baumard, 2021). Yet, others believe that the ability to enjoy consuming stories is actually fitness-enhancing. One reason cited is that the consumption of stories enables people to gain more fitness-related knowledge, which can help improve survival (Sugiyama, 2001). Other proponents argue that the ability to create stories allows people to simulate fake scenarios (Mar & Oatley, 2008), enabling them to be better prepared to face the real world. Some people also believe that the interest in stories is a factor in sexual selection (Miller, 2001). Many of these arguments highlight the universal appeal of stories, encompassing both non-fictional and fictional narratives, which can be shared through various mediums such as oral, visual and written mediums. Daniel Nettle (2009), biologist and Professor of Behavioural Science at Newcastle University, aims to add to the academic conversation by explaining why people enjoy reading and writing fiction in particular. Nettle (2009) contends that humans’ ability to enjoy consuming stories is a by-product of our adaptive interest in social information, evolved theory of mind, and our adaptive ability to speak and understand language. While Nettle makes a valid and convincing argument on how people evolved to enjoy consuming stories, he fails to make a distinction between oral and written fiction in his argument, which makes his explanations ineffective in addressing his proposed argument of how written fiction emerged. Nettle (2009) also argues that written fiction emerged as a result of the development of writing for record-keeping purposes. However, I will argue that his argument about the development of writing is brief and is inadequate in providing a comprehensive explanation about how the function of writing transitioned from administrative purposes to the transmission of stories.

Revised:
