- when referring to a concept, use the same terms throughout the paper so the reader knows you are referring to the same concept
- when explaining a quote, either use the same keyterms as the quote or explicitly connect the terms you are using to the quote's terms
- examples of ambiguity: are they referring to the same thing with different language or referring to two different things?
	> In Kjeldgaard-Christiansen's view, "technical agency allows for the experience of gratifying psychological agency in the virtual world". In other words, being able to act freely in a video game will lead to a feeling of autonomy and significance, which people find pleasurable.
	> To add to the academic conversation, Varella et al. discuss the evolution of artisticality through female intrasexual competition. They reviewed empirical evidence on the sex differences in artisticality and determined that women have a greater proclivity towards the arts than men.
	> Credible signaling relates to the practice of coordinated musical behaviors for the purpose of social bonding. One scenario that illustrates this relationship is alliance formation or between-group cooperation.
	> This paper argues that Dunbar fails to make a persuasive case that social bonding is indeed the primary function of language. Rather, I suggest that the interaction of the social contract, pair-bonding, and social bonding functions of language is what allowed the use of language to evolve with humans. First and foremost, it is imperative to question why Dunbar thinks that socialization  is the reason for the evolution of language use in humans.

Revise to prevent confusion:

> Pinker argues that a way that the human mind registers the attainment of its goal states is by feeling a sense of pleasure (524). In other words, the human mind is adapted to feel a sense of pleasure in fitness-enhancing environments.
> Dissanayake suggests that artification is a product of exaptation and that artification served two adaptive functions of reducing individual anxiety and improving social cohesion. Exaptation, she explains, is the process in which an already evolved adaptation gains new adaptive functions that the adaptation was not originally selected for. Artification, as a behavioural trait, arises from exaptation because pre-existing aesthetic predispositions from mother-infant interactions gained two new adaptive functions. One adaptive function involves minimising fears and stress of individuals, while the other adaptive function fosters belonging and unity amongst members of the same group.
