# writing examples

- good use of 1) outside research, 2) short concrete counterexamples:
	> One may then argue that while societal influences may have exacerbated the sex differences in artisticality, women are still born with more traits that are supposedly "prerequisites" for artisticality, such as fine motor skills and creativity. To support their point, Varella et al. referenced studies by Baer and Kaufman (2008) and Cheung and Lau (2010), which concluded that females displayed more creativity in areas such as drawing and verbal flexibility. Yet, the overall literature surrounding sex differences in creativity is largely inconclusive. Some studies, like the ones quoted by Varella et al., pinpoint females to be the more creative sex. Other studies (e.g. Hora et al., 2022) instead suggest that men are more creative than women. There are also studies which have no clear winner on which sex triumphs in creativity (e.g. Martins and Shalley, 2011). Due to the large amount of uncertainty, we are unable to confidently assert that there is a distinct sex difference in creativity, let alone conclude that women are the more creative sex. Additionally, while females may indeed have better fine motor skills than males, males have better gross motor skills than females (Halpern, 1997). Some forms of art, like sculpting and playing musical instruments, require good fine motor skills, while other forms of art like dancing may require better gross motor skills instead. Both fine and gross motor skills are hence important for different forms of art, and both can be considered as prerequisites for artisticality. Since each sex is born with propensities towards different types of motor skills, we cannot argue that the sex difference in motor skills results in females having more artisticality than males. Overall, it is hard to conclude that women are born with more artistic prerequisites than men.



- lack of logical flow between sentences
	> Shafer and Raney (2012) propose the schema theory to explain the enjoyment of antihero narratives, as they believe that the affective disposition theory (ADT) proposed by Zillmann and Cantor (1977) is insufficient in explaining how we enjoy antihero narratives. In the age of comic book movies and television series, we find ourselves immersed in narratives where heroes defeat villains. Stories with clear distinctions between protagonists and antagonists, or agonistic structures, are universal across cultures (Carroll, 2012). The ubiquity of these narratives implies that humans have evolved to enjoy them. The evolution of human cooperation can help explain why we enjoy these narratives. Boyd (2009) claims that humans evolved to detect injustice and cooperate on a global scale by punishing cheaters and those who do not discriminate or punish cheaters, called free-riders. Austin (2010) calls this "altruistic punishment". He claims that participating in altruistic punishment makes us admire others, including fictional characters, who also participate in altruistic punishment. This evolutionary trait could explain why audiences tend to like characters who are perceived to be good or moral and dislike characters who are immoral and bad (Zillmann, 2000). ADT explains how viewers enjoy when liked characters experience positive outcomes and when disliked characters experience negative outcomes, which easily explains why audiences enjoy narratives with agonistic structures when heroes punish villains for causing injustice. Antiheroes, however, pose a problem to ADT; ADT does not explain why audiences enjoy antihero narratives. ADT suggests that viewers form initial dispositions toward characters by morally judging their actions and motivations.


- punctuation, brackets in quotes, incorporating quotes
	> Central to the tension between the live and the non-live in the display of performative arts (PA) - like dance, music or theatre, is their dependence on each other to be individually defined. As Daniel Meyer-Dinkgräfe (2015) words it, "the live does not precede the mediatised and cannot claim superiority because it came first" because "[live] makes sense only in relation to an opposite [which is the mediatised]

- wrong verb = false
	> Additionally, James Gibson's (1979) theory of affordance shows how live PA is able to engage human senses more thoroughly. Gibson's theory lends itself to EP because it affects human perception of reality.

- overly generic thesis 2025-11-06
    - They seem to disagree on X, but there are foundational disagreements and misunderstandings that have to be clarified to better understand what they are actually disagreeing with.
