- paragraphs should each convey one main idea, and that main idea should be summarized in the topic sentence of the paragraph
- topic sentences are usually just one sentence long, but sometimes two sentences are necessary
- topic sentences should directly state the main idea of the paragraph
- topic sentence scope: The topic sentence must be broad enough to include the full main idea of the paragraph. It should not be a claim that is just the first step leading to the main idea.
- topic sentences should be at the beginning of each body paragraph unless you have a reason to place them elsewhere
- Topic sentences are usually combined with transitions. They might begin with a transition word or phrase linking the previous paragraph to the current paragraph. Example:
	> Although _Young Woman with a Water Pitcher_ depicts an unknown, middle-classwoman at an ordinary task, the image is more than "realistic" because the creator, Vermeer, depicts the subject as strong and regal.
	- Here, the beginning of the sentence summarizes the previous paragraph, and the rest connects the previous idea to the main idea that will be shown in the current paragraph.
- In an argumentative essay, each topic sentence states an argument or reason. Across the paper, the topic sentences should include all of the reasons needed to support the essay's thesis statement.

Topic sentences at the beginning of a paragraph frequently combine with a transition from the previous paragraph. This might be done by writing a sentence that contains both subordinate and independent clauses, as in the example below.

This sentence employs a useful principle of transitions: always move from old to new information. The subordinate clause (from "although" to "task") recaps information from previous paragraphs; the independent clauses (starting with "the image" and "the painter") introduce the new information—a claim about how the image works ("more than realistic'") and why it works as it does (Vermeer "strengthens" the image by "imposing order").

topic sentence at beginning of paragraph, not end, and not absent

- e.g. stating main claim of paragraph at the end:
	> Firstly, cooperation is a naturally selected trait  because, in an ideal scenario , cooperation will increase the chances of the individual's genes being passed down, be it through the reproduction of a relative or themselves. Humans cooperate with family members because they share a high proportion of the same genes, thus ensuring the survival of their kin also ensures that these shared genes get passed down . Cooperating with non-kin, however, can also benefit the survival of the individual if all collaborators faithfully repay favors done for one another, or if they work together to achieve a common benefit for all. Secondly, and more obviously, securing a mate benefits an individual's ability to pass their genes on to successive generations since a mate is necessary for individuals to reproduce in the first place. Therefore, since language allows for more efficient cooperation and mate selection which in turn promote reproductive fitness, Dunbar's stance that the evolution of language was for 'social purposes' (133) is indeed a plausible one.

- e.g. paragraph that should be divided into two paragraphs and requires revision of the topic sentence:
	- >            Huron and Vuoskoski claim that sad music is an ethological signal that can evoke compassion in addition to sadness in its listeners. Ethological signals are emotional displays that warrant a response from the observer, usually one that benefits the displayer. These emotional displays do not necessarily express the displayer’s internal emotions but rather give signals for the observer to act in the interest of the displayer. For example, a smile may not necessarily signal happiness since individuals may also smile out of respect for someone of higher authority or status, or when experiencing stress, fear, or when mocking someone (Huron and Vuoskoski, 2020, p.3). Research done by Martin et al. (2017) shows that smiles evoke pleasure in the observer’s brain and ensure the observer will repeat the action that originally gave rise to that smile. According to Martin et al. (2017), babies’ smiles trigger dopamine-associated regions in the mothers’ brains, thus, reinforcing mothers’ emotional investment and care for the infants. In this sense, these emotional displays indicate the displayer’s intention to manipulate the observer’s behaviours to the displayer’s benefit. Similarly, weeping does not convey sadness per se — as there are still instances of happy tears — but instead manipulates the observer to feel compassion and offer assistance to the weeping individual. Huron and Vuoskoski propose that under certain circumstances, the act of weeping also helps mitigate or terminate aggressive behaviors on the observer’s end, which consequently benefits the displayer. Huron and Vuoskoski propose that sad music is an ethological signal itself, and thus, can evoke compassion in listeners. According to Sachs et al. (2015), sad music follows the same musical and vocal structures as grief-inducing sounds such as a “lower overall pitch, narrow pitch range, slower tempo, use of the minor mode” together with a more lethargic emphasis on notes. These features make the brain believe that sad music is an emotional display and thus, prompt the brain to react accordingly with compassion.
