---
title: Exercise 4 examples explanations of 2.7.4
date: 2025-09-07
---

### 2.7.4 The Thinness of Evolutionary Psychology Explanation

> According to Goldfinch, Richardson (2007) thinks evolutionary psychology (EP) explanations are "unconstrained speculation" that are unlikely to ever be confirmed by evidence (64).
>
> According to Goldfinch, Richardson's argument is as follows: To claim a trait is an adaptation is to make the historical claim that the trait became common in a species because it enhanced reproductive fitness in a past environment (65). To validate such a claim (i.e., to provide a complete explanation of a trait) we must do more than just posit a possible scenario in which the trait became widespread, we must show that this scenario actually occurred, using reliable historical information about past populations and environments. For example, to validate a adaptation claim, we would need evidence that the trait is heritable, since evolution explains only heritable traits. Further, to completely rule out alternate hypotheses, we would need to know whether the trait actually increased reproductive fitness in the past, which would require evidence about the numbers of offspring created by ancestral individuals with the trait as compared to those without it (65). However, these specifics are lacking, as shown by looking at several well-known examples of EP research (66).
>
> Goldfinch affirms Richardson's argument that EP explanations often lack strong evidential support for some of their claims, noting that this point has been made by EP critics as far back as the 1990s (66, 68). He notes that Richardson goes even further, saying that such evidence is lacking not just in past research, but is likely to be absent in future research as well (67).

**On "For example, to validate a adaptation claim...":** Here, I provide two examples of the types of evidence that Richardson claims a complete EP explanation would need. In the source, Goldfinch lists five categories of evidence and even more specific examples of evidence. I made a judgement that the reader could understand the objection proposed in this section without knowing all of these details, as the main thrust of the objection is that a complete explanation would require types of evidence that EPs can never obtain. It's less important that the reader learn all of the exact criteria discussed in the section unless we intend to analyze each one in our writing.

**On "...as far back as the 1990s (66, 68)":** Here, I combined ideas from two different pages, so my in-text citation covers multiple pages.
