---
title: Exercise 4 examples explanations of 2.7.4 and 2.7.5
date: 2025-02-08
publishDate: 2025-02-10
---

### 2.7.4 The Thinness of Evolutionary Psychology Explanation

> According to Goldfinch, Richardson (2007) thinks evolutionary psychology (EP) explanations are "unconstrained speculation" that are unlikely to ever be confirmed by evidence (64).
>
> According to Goldfinch, Richardson's argument is as follows: To claim a trait is an adaptation is to make the historical claim that the trait became common in a species because it enhanced reproductive fitness in a past environment (65). To validate such a claim (i.e., to provide a complete explanation of a trait) we must do more than just posit a possible scenario in which the trait became widespread, we must show that this scenario actually occurred, using reliable historical information about past populations and environments. [:For example](#x-for-example), to validate a adaptation claim, we would need evidence that the trait is heritable, since evolution explains only heritable traits. Further, to completely rule out alternate hypotheses, we would need to know whether the trait actually increased reproductive fitness in the past, which would require evidence about the numbers of offspring created by ancestral individuals with the trait as compared to those without it (65). However, these specifics are lacking, as shown by looking at several well-known examples of EP research (66).
>
> Goldfinch affirms Richardson's argument that EP explanations often lack strong evidential support for some of their claims, noting that this point has been made by EP critics as far back as the 1990s (66, 68). He notes that Richardson goes even further, saying that such evidence is lacking not just in past research, but is likely to be absent in future research as well (67).

### 2.7.5 [:The Mystery of Discovery](#x-the-mystery-of-discovery)

> According to Goldfinch, many philosophers dismiss EP based on legitimate concerns that its theories allow multiple, competing hypotheses to be suggested for any given adaptation. Thus, these critics say, EP's ability to explain known [:phenomena](#x-phenomena) is worthless. Further, Goldfinch states, since EP can propose many different possible solutions to a given adaptive problem, we cannot rely on its predictive abilities to discover anything new (68-69).
>
> Goldfinch argues that these limitations cause many philosophers to ignore EP's [:"heuristic aspects"](#x-heuristic-aspects), a phrase that refers to EP's capacity to suggest hypotheses that would only be developed in light of evolutionary theories. EP often defends its usefulness by arguing that EP-inspired hypotheses have led to discovery of new phenomena. For example, EP defenders say that Cosmides and Tooby (1992) used EP theories to hypothesize that a specialized mechanism for detecting cheaters would be a useful adaptation for species that would benefit from cooperation, and experiments using the Wason Selection Task confirmed that humans have this ability [:(69-71)](#x-69-71).
>
> Schultz (2011) challenges EP's claims of novel discoveries, Goldfinch states, arguing that, while it is hypothetically possible for EP to discover new things, in actual practice, EP merely explains known phenomena in ways consistent with the theory (71). For example, regarding the cheater detection hypothesis, Schulz argues that the results of the Wason selection task were published in 1966, long before EP developed. Thus, he states, EP merely explained this phenomenon rather than discovering it. Goldfinch notes that Schulz challenges several prominent examples of EP research in the same manner (70-71).

##### :x for example

Here, I provide two examples of the types of evidence that Richardson claims a complete EP explanation would need. In the source, Goldfinch lists five categories of evidence and even more specific examples of evidence. I made a judgement that the reader could understand the objection proposed in this section without knowing all of these details, as the main thrust of the objection is that a complete explanation would require types of evidence that EPs can never obtain. It's less important that the reader learn the exact types discussed in the section unless we intend to analyze each one in our writing.

##### :x the mystery of discovery

In the source, Goldfinch relies heavily on ideas he has already discussed, so he is not worried about delivering ideas in the order needed for a generalist reader to understand. Thus, this brief explanation required significant reorganization of ideas. I also chose to include just one of the examples mentioned in the original, believing that it fairly illustrated the general objection outlined in this section.

##### :x phenomena

In this context, phenomena (singular: phenomenon) is just a term meaning "something that happens often enough to be a noticeable type of event"

##### :x heuristic aspects

Here, I expanded the text to explain the notion of "heuristic aspects", which is central to this section.

##### :x 69 71

Here, I combined a number of ideas from across the section, so my in-text citation covers multiple pages.
