---
created: 2026-06-25
lastUpdated: 2026-06-26
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---



# What I planned to do

- Edit the visualizations accordingly with proper labels (title, x-axis, y-axis)
- Identify how the "read" event gets triggered especially for short pages that are hardly scrollable

# What I actually did

[10:00 ~ 12:00] : I have finished doing the visualizations for all the graphs for the 2510 cohort, labeling the title, x-axis, y-axis in a specific manner that would not confuse people who first encounter the visualizations.

[13:00 ~ 15:00] : I have been talking to Kristen about the read event. First, I was doing this the wrong way where I focused on how we may "solve" the read event issue if it got automatically triggered for hardly scrollable pages.

However, Kristen assisted me to the right direction, where according to the meeting notes, I was supposed to identify "how" the read events were triggered in pages like the pages that are hardly scrollable.

So, again, Kristen helped me find where the function that was defined for the read event was, and realized that there was a function called the handleScroll(). 

What this does is that when the page is loaded, a variable called the screen height is measure, which is the total height of the entire screen. Then, a variable called scrollY is measured if the user starts scrolling. Finally, there is the viewport_height, that measure the amount of page, relative to the total page, that is shown as the page is loaded.


These three variables are measured in pixels, so when the user scrolls down more than 50% of the total pixel (screen height), the read event gets triggered.

However, for small pages like Exercise 13 page, where scrolling is limited even for my big computer, the total amount of pixels (screen height) was 850px, while the view_port height was 836px, which is already 98% of the page shown once the page is loaded. So, the read event becomes triggered despite the user did not scroll at all.


[15:00 ~ 17:00] Then, as requested, with Kristen's help, I am analyzing how useful the resource pages may be, and I am going to start visualizing the 2520 cohorts' data once I get the extra time as suggested.

# Concerns

- Nothing as of now


# What I would do tomorrow

- 
