# What I planned to do today

- To think about the questions
- Think about what to put in poster / report

# What I actually did today
[10:00 ~ 12:00]

Today, I realized how I wrote the general description document too simply. Hence, I thought it would be a good idea to rewrite it like a report, as we have to write a report at the end anyways.

So, with Kristen, we discussed about the data we have as of now, in order to make sure we are on the same stance, and then we distributed our role to write the description summary.

The description summary may not have been intended to be a "serious" document (no evidence why I thought like this, but the word "summary" just feels a bit light), but we thought we can write this to leave something for the next cohorts, where they can understand what kind of data we had for the 2510 and 2520 cohort. So, we decided to write it like a research paper. 

I will share the link as soon as we think it would be good enough for you to see and give feedback!!

[13:30 ~ 17:00] Honestly, I have been working on writing the paper the whole day, and I still haven't finished. The reason is most likely because I am writing in latex in overleaf, as I thought being familiar with these formal ways to write a research paper can be another thing that I can get out of this internship. Kristen is writing the Introduction part as she understands the data the most, and I am writing the methodology part as I did the visualizations for the events.

# Concerns

Nothing as of now. I would like to ask for feedback once the documentation is done.

# What I would do tomorrow

Finish up writing the document and get checked!!
