---
created: 2026-06-23
lastUpdated: 2026-06-24
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---

# What I planned to do

- Figure out more about the nutshell
- Start with the 2520 analysis to compare with 2510

# What I actually did

- I was not able to finish 2520 until the meeting time, so I will exempt it.


[10:00 ~ 12:00] For 2510 cohorts, I started making the multiple graphs that may represent the current data that we have.

1) I figured out how there were maximum of 24 unique students visiting the website over the term.
2) Students usually visit the website during the afternoon after 12pm
3) I have created a bar graph that shows us which events were captured on the website by all students over the term.
4) I made a line graph that shows us the frequency of events triggered by students over the term. 
5) Then, I made a bar graph that shows active students per week.


[13:00 ~ 16:00] (This was BEFORE the meeting)

Then, I got distracted by nutshells, which is good as you said, but I was supposed to look at the read event issue. 

For the nutshells, I first determined how much times they were opened. As discussed, I did not know where to start with how to determine whether or not the students "concentrated". So, I tried to analyze several variables to see if they help out with the definition.

First, I began by using the inactiveNutshell feature to understand how many times the nutshells were opened, and how many students left it inactive, which means the students left the nutshell opened, or had the time to actually read it. 

“How to formulate your working thesis” : 134 opens, 102 inactive (76% inactive)
“How to verify disagreement” : 129 opens, 101 inactive (78% inactive)
“How to write your introduction” : 106 opens, 89 inactive (84% inactive)
“How to develop your analysis” : 123 opens, 76 inactive (62% inactive)
“Developing your thesis” : 97 opens, 75 inactive (77% inactive)

But, I thought, what if the students just left it opened and went to somewhere else, daydreamed, or did not focus on the reading? One other possibility that I thought is that wouldn't "closing" the nutshell also be a potential factor that may affect how students "concentrated".

So, I analyzed the amount of nutshells that has been closed too. Then, I analyzed the median seconds it took for the students took before closing the nutshell. Again, as we discussed in the meeting, it would be good to do an analysis for all nutshells for this instead of doing just the top 7 nutshells that were opened the most.


# Concerns

- Nothing, as we had the meeting. It's clear what I am supposed to do.

# What I would do tomorrow

- Edit the graphs so that it can be easily interpreted
- Analyze the "read" event issue where I analyze if read event got triggered even when the page was not scrollable.





