---
created: 2026-05-27
lastUpdated: 2026-05-27
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---


# What I planned to work on today

- Finish analyzing paper 6
- Be more familiar with our data
- Get tested by Kristen regarding the data

# What I actually worked on

- Uploaded the "What is Learning Analytics" summary 
- Finished analyzing paper 6 (2.5 hours)
- Used PostHog AI to learn about our data, take notes, and even identify some flaws that the data may have in our database 
- Summarized my finding in the md files
- Identifying, Learning, Getting tested, and summarizing took 4.5 hours.

# Concerns / Obstacles

- My concern is that for some papers, I am taking too much time for literature reviews. For the ones that has a lot of pages, I have been using generative AI to reduce the amount of time for the reviews, but I don't know if this is the right way, as I might miss some critical information in the paper. I wanted to know if the analysis that I am doing makes sense, is useful, and enough for us to understand what the research papers are saying. Is this usually the way how research works? Am I on the right track? If you were to hire a PhD student, is this the way you would expect for him/her to work? I guess I read faster than last week and understand faster, which is good, but I would like to be better in a correct direction!!

# What I would do tomorrow

- Keep looking at the data, trying to understand it
- I realized how PostHog AI is really useful to understand the quantitative data saved in our database. I would like to go a bit deeper and identify which data would be useful and how it may be useful for our analysis.
- Other than that, I will again summarize my findings and try to find high-end methodologies that may help us figure out how we should analyze the data as I would be more familiar with it.
