---
created: 2026-06-22
lastUpdated: 2026-06-22
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---


# What I was planning to do today

- Analysis of the Dashboard that I made
- Answer the question that I had for last Friday (How would we be able to say that a student actually focused during their session time?)


# What I did today / My Progress

- [10:00 ~ 12:00] As I have done a genearal dashboard analysis for the 2510 cohort (as requested during the meeting : creating a deck of slides or graphs that tells you how the students actually used your website during the semester), I would like to present it here, and for visualizations, I would like to explain it further during the meeting.

1) So, for the 2510 cohort, I have found out that for PageView, it peaked during September and early November.
2) For features (read, openNutshell, internalLinkClick, externalLinkClick), similar to the pageviews, the interactions with them peaked during September and early November
3) I have ranked the most visited pages as a bar graph, and figured that most of the visited pages are assignment-related
4) 17 to 24 students were active
5) externalLinkClick was not triggered a lot compared to other features

<br>

- [13:00 ~ 13:30] Then, as I did the pageview analysis last week, today I focused on Nutshell analysis to see deeply how the students interacted with the nutshells and what that data may tell us.

I had the question : "What factors would define whether the student focused while he/she was reading the nutshell or not?"

So, I checked first how many times each nutshells were opened, and thought maybe analyzing both the time nutshell was opened and the times when the users actually closed the nutshell may be important factors. 

I also figured we can potentially use the LinkClick features to tell whether the user visited anywhere else when reading the nutshell. 


<br>

- [13:30 ~ 17:00]

As median time represents the most common time users spent for each nutshell, I measured the median time the users spent per each nutshell. Then, I organized them using tables. In addition, I have added a variable called pare_count where it measures the time users closed the nutshells after certain amount of time. 

I also calculated the average time spent for each nutshell, but I will use this for another analysis.

Now, using these variables, I tried to come up with a way to define what "concentration" may be. 


So, I started with first arraging the nutshells that had the highest opening frequencies : 

1) How to formulate your working thesis
2) How to verify disagreement
3) How to develop your analysis
4) Developing your significance discussion
5) How to write your introduction
6) Developing your thesis
7) How to explain positions


Here, I used the frequency of how much the nutshell was opened, how many time it was closed, how long it was inactive, and the median time it took for the users to take before closing the nutshell.



One example for one of the analysis is : 

for the "how to formulate your working thesis" nutshell, it had the most opening frequency for 2510 cohort. After the opening, 76% of the students left it opened for a while, and since out of 134 clicks, it was closed 90 times, the open-close ratio is 90/134 = 67%. The median time students spent was 14 seconds for this nutshell.


Now, can we say most students concentrated? Well, I first thought that 14 seconds was a bit too short, but as the content of this particular nutshell was quite short, I could tell it isn't too inaccurate. Here, I had a question to myself : "Yes, 67% of the users who opened this nutshell did close the nutshell, which may imply that the user read the content properly, but what if the user just went to another tab without reading the nutshell while leaving it open? Then, in this case, we cannot regard this as "concentrated"." 

This is where my idea of also regarding the internalLinkClick and externalLinkClick variables comes in. I guess if we know if the users went out the page or not during the openNutshell event, we can truly determine whether the user concentrated.


# Concerns

- I just need a bit more time to make this analysis into slides. I am trying my best to have all these analysis merged and make it into clean insights.

# What I would do tomorrow

- Of course, explore more data we have had for 2510, by starting with the internalLinkClick and externalLinkClick during the openNutshell event. After that, I will try to do a similar analysis for 2520 so that I can compare the usage.














