---
created: 2026-05-29
lastUpdated: 2026-05-29
lastEvaluated: 
writingClarityEvaluated: 
---

# What I planned to do today

- Be more used and familiar to the data we have
- Get tested by Kristen multiple times
- Think about the questions to ask and how to answer them regarding our data

# What I actually did today 

- Using PostHog AI, I asked about all the data types that exists and what they do, what properties they have, when are they triggered and documented in .md file, which is in my assessment-submission folder.

- Then, after getting tested by Kristen, I decided to take a deeper look at the data. Using PostHog API, I fetched all the data from the database then I went through EDA (Explanatory Data Analysis) using Python in order to discover how the data actually looks like, how it was recorded, or if there are any flaws, etc. I tried to answer some questions mentioned in the data-question-mapping.md file, to get closer to understanding our true data.

- I uploaded both the analysis md file and the code to my assessment-submission file.


# Obstacles / Concerns

- I guess I would want a feedback regarding my EDA file, as I would like to know if this is the right way you wanted us to explore data to understand it.


# What I would do tomorrow

- Explore data more precisely using Python, and think about what research questions / direction we may consider.
- I would also like to try a little bit of the new methodologies for analysis, but of course I'll start this once I finish doing enough data exploration.
