---
created: 2026-07-01
lastUpdated: 2026-07-02
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---


# What I planned to do

- Check the November anomaly and determine whether it was a mistake or an actual anomaly in the data
- Check out RageClick frequencies per each unique students

# What I actually did

[10:00 ~ 12:00, 14:00 ~ 17:00] I first started inspecting the data and realized that on November 3rd, 37 unique students were recorded. But, when I checked the data for 2510 cohorts, there was supposed to be maximum of 24 unique students. I thought this may be the starting point of the anomaly as the data was inaccurate. Then, what I realized was that when I presented using Figma, I was using the wrong dataset that was not cleaned.

Before the meeting when I had the proper graphs (6/30), I asked Kristen for help, and apprantly she has already made the 2510 cohorts' dataset where she removed "jonathan", "joe", and "fromeguest" so that we can do analysis more precisely limited to the students. So, I asked for the csv file, worked on the visualization and tables with accurate data, where the maximum number of unique students were 24. 

After the change of data, the sudden drop is not present anymore. So, I double checked with this current data, and saw how the activities of the unique students dropped from November 17th. To double check if this also may be an anomaly, I first checked the latest due dates for all assignments, and checked that the most latest due date was 2025-11-21. But, as the amount of unique students dropped after 17th, I was thinking if students may have submitted exercise 12 and 13 earlier than 21st. Now, what I need to do is to validate this using evidence? Or would this not be regarded as an anomaly?

But, as of now, the graph looks reasonable as there are no more sudden drops of the number of unique number of students during the semester. I shall validate this again with you.

# Question

- Is a drop in unique students after November 17th despite the final due date is November 21st regarded as anomaly? If this is a new anomaly, I will look into it.

# What I would do tomorrow

- Work on the RageClick frequencies per each unique students
- Start thinking about further questions using solely what we have (not too deep)

