---
created: 2026-06-24
lastUpdated: 2026-06-24
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---



# What I planned to do today

- Edit the graph so that it can be easily interpretable.
- Then, analyze the read event as requested.

# What I actually did today

[13:00 ~ 16:00] : I first started editing the graphs and focused on the graphs that I have made already. I did not go into new relations, new variables, solely focused on what I have. 

As you mentioned, even making one graph properly requires quite lot of focus and critical thinking. Well, I enjoyed the process and labeled the x-axis, y-axis, added a title, and added legend as necessary.

The thing about posthog's SQL environment is that it does not really support a feature where it creates the labels (it might be my coding skill issue) so I asked Kristen about adding labels, and she told me, but it was hard for me to manipulate the label structure (I will explain better in the meeting), so I downloaded the csv file for the particular data that I wanted (as in the data that I need to edit the graphs for better labeling and titles), then I used python (as I am more familiar doing data visualization with it) to visualize and label it in a more clean way using the seaborn library.

[16:00 ~ 17:00, 20:00 ~ current] : Then, I started looking into the read event 

Kristen and I started looking at the read event. I honestly haven't figured this out. I will talk with Kristen tomorrow morning.


# Concerns

- Nothing as of now, trying to work things out. I was sick this morning, so I will be working more in the coming days.

# What I would do tomorrow 

- (Priority) Deal with the read event
- Get ready for meeting (presenting the editted graphs and the read event)

