---
created: 2026-06-19
lastUpdated: 2026-06-19
lastEvaluated:
writingClarityEvaluated:
---

# What I planned to do

- Look at the fundamental data as required, figure out the potential relationships they have and analyze them deeply

# What I actually did today (with general timestamps)

(10am ~ 12pm) : Using the feedback during the meeting, as I wanted to make an overview of how the website was used for the previous cohorts, I first read Kristen's documents on the fundamental data document to remind myself what each data did and what it measures.


(12pm ~ 1pm) : I had a brief lunch break

(1pm ~ 3pm) : I started analyzing the data of the 2510 cohorts where I made a data dashboard where I explored how multiple features such as pageview, nutshells, internalLinkClicks were used in order to see what was actually used frequently during the semester. Since I focused on the 2510 cohort, I made sure the data came from August~December, 2025.


For this part, I had multiple graphs representing : 

1) identification how features such as Read, OpenNutshell, internalLinkClick, and externalLinkClick was used over time.
2) Most visited pages throughout the semester
3) Total amount of Pageviews over time
4) Active Students per each week (Number of unique 2510 cohort students active each week during the semester)

This was mainly done in order to understand which features were actually used during the 2510 cohort.


(3pm~4:30pm) : Then, I made an analysis report and visualization in the Figma workspace that I have shared during the meeting. What I focused on during this time was to determine the number of times nutshells were opened, which nutshell was opened the most, and to investigate whether the frequency of nutshell openings had some correlation with the amount of students visiting the page (For specific analysis, I will present this during the meeting). But, for this, as we cannot really tell if the student just left the nutshells opened without reading it, it was hard for me to directly say that the students had interest in the topic / actually read the nutshells / or whether the nutshell actually helped for their assignments. I guess these can be written in the concerns part of this report too.


(4:30pm ~ Current) : Now, I have just finished checking how pageviews got triggered most frequently during October, 2025. I wanted to determine whether it was just a few students opening the page multiple times, or all the cohorts with different unique ids opening them. It turns out that 24 unique ids contributed in the total frequency of pageviews, and since 24 students are listed in the 2510 according to SQL, it looks correct.

However, as it may have seen "correct", I verified with Kristen if this would actually be the case. She told me that there are 2 users who are both registered in the database for 2420 and 2510 cohort. I guess some cleaning would be required. Also, I have just realized there is a 2420 cohort, so I guess I will do the analysis after 2510.


#### For now, what I found out is that when pageview activities were the highest during October, the most frequently opened nutshells were nutshells that were related to writing the paper. This told me how users use the website the most during the assignment periods, but I will try to get more logical reasoning behind this statement until the next meeting.



# Concerns / Questions : Not necessarily concerns, I guess it's just some questions I gained in my mind while doing the analysis. I guess these questions would be helpful in the future after we try to determine what to do after understanding our data 

- How do we really determine if a student actually benefited from one of the features, such as nutshell? For now, we are able to calculate how long the nutshell was opened by finding out the time difference between openNutshell and inactiveNutshell, but wouldn't this not be able to really reflect whether it was read properly by the user?


# What I would do from now on

- I guess I will work a bit more during the weekends. Exploring the data is more fun than I thought, so as I am required to present the insights too for the meeting (the "middle" part using Kristen's "low" part analysis), I will find out more relationships after I find out which features were actually used. I will continue this until Monday.





