---
title: Exercise 01 - introductions
---
<!-- Assignment 1 due Tue 16 Jan 2024 -->

I've introduced myself to you on the "Meet your instructor" page. Please introduce yourself to me and the class in a post on the "Discussions" page in the thread "Introductions" (NOT on this page). The discussion thread will be set so you can only read the other responses once you have posted yours. Write your response in a paragraph composed of grammatical sentences; do not answer in a list. No introduction or conclusion needed.

The goal of this assignment is to help me get to know you in ways that will help me teach you more effectively.

In your post, let us know:

General

- your name
- what you prefer to be called in class (please don't say "anything is fine", let me know your preference)
- country of upbringing if not Singapore and/or experience living in other countries
- your current academic focus/major
- the last major writing project you completed before NUS (GP, IB Extended essay, course assignment, etc.) and what it  was about

Evolution and Art

- why you chose this TWW section instead of a different one (if you chose it only because it was best for your schedule, or you got modwrecked and didn't want this section, I'm sorry about that, but in that case it's best to tell me some more encouraging reason you might have chosen the class so I don't think you don't really want to be here)
- what types of art or media entertainment you are most interested in, and you degree of interest if notable (I am not a media snob, I like all kinds of stuff including comics and horror films, so just be honest)
- any specific issues about either art or evolution you are currently interested in (it's fine if you don't have any at this point)
- your level of background knowledge/education about evolution (including whether your knowledge of the Earth's age or the origin of humans comes in part from a religious perspective)
- your level of background knowledge/education about art or media (including whether you create art)

Writing

- your confidence level about academic writing compared to your peers
- the degree to which you love/hate/are neutral towards writing and why
- whether you want my feedback on your papers to be more tempered and supportive vs. more straightforward and critical
  - be honest and as detailed as you like—giving me this information will only benefit you

If there is any information relating to these topics that would be useful for me to know, but that you would rather not share with your classmates, please email me a supplement to your public post.

IMPORTANT: Just a reminder that you should not submit your introduction on this page. Instead, post it to the introductions thread on the Discussions page.
