---
title: Exercise 02 - explain EEA
---
<!-- Assignment 2 due Sun 21 Jan 2024-->

The goal of this assignment is to give you practice explaining short, introductory texts for generalist audiences. For this course, "generalist audiences" means typical people who have little education in your course topic. It is often useful to imagine your reader as an intelligent 10 year old who has never studied your topic. Use simple language and sentence structure.

Summarize a short excerpt about the EEA (see class reading for 2.1).

Your explanation must be shorter than the original text, but must also clarify (explicate) aspects of the text that are implicit rather than explicit. You should help your generalist reader understand a text that doesn't always do the work needed to make itself completely clear. Thus, you will summarize some parts of the text, leaving out details and stating the main idea in fewer words. You will also explicate other parts of the text, adding details and making implicit reasoning explicit to make your summary easier to understand than the original text itself.

The summaries should meet these requirements:

- 300 words maximum
- grammatically correct
- written in language that is as simple and concise as possible
- convey the main ideas of the text
- written entirely in the student's own words, with no quotes from the text
- formatted correctly (check Formatting page)
- either includes links to GenAI transcripts or ends with a statement that you didn't use any GenAI (as explained on the GenAI page)

You don't need to cite anything. No introductions or conclusions are needed in your summaries.

I will bring hardcopies of some summaries to class to discuss as a group. While at first it may be uncomfortable to discuss your writing in public, the process is incredibly useful for all, and you'll get used to it quickly.

Make sure to also submit an updated workload report for this and every other assignment.
