---
title: Exercise 10 - final workload report
---
<!-- Workload report -->

Instructors are told that this course should require an average of 10 hours of work per week, including class time (of course weeks with major assignments may require more time). I am relatively new to NUS and am still adjusting my courses to NUS students and academic culture. To match my course workload with expectations, and to insure that I am not overworking students, I need help from you.

Please download [this form](https://canvas.nus.edu.sg/users/90279/files/3681630/download?verifier=ktRQrAp0jDOtJhAksGnAQ820BHw3Ziyqzttvp84f&download_frd=1) and fill it in weekly to let me know how long you spent out of class completing assignments. Save the form and add to it each week. It is fine if your data is not accurate; just make your best estimates. This information will not affect your grade in any way, including your participation grade. I am just collecting data to make sure my courses have an appropriate workload.

I'm going to list more assignments than you may actually have to avoid having to update the form. If you don't actually have a listed assignment (e.g. there is no reading for a certain week) just put "0" for that entry.

For writing assignments, when you estimate time, _include_ time spent reading Canvas, reading sources, getting feedback on assignments from people, etc.

Report your time in hours. Use decimals for less an hour; e.g. 0.5 for 30 minutes. Don't put any letters in the time (use "2" not "2 hrs"). Always report in hours, not other units like minutes or days (I don't know what "half a day" means to you—8 hours? 12 hours?).

IMPORTANT: Save this form and resubmit it weekly with updated information. Include all data from previous weeks so I have all of your information on one sheet. Thanks!

DUE DATE: Submit an updated form weekly on Mon morning or earlier. I'm not putting a due date on Canvas because I would then have to create 13 weekly assignments  with individual due dates rather than just letting you resubmit to this one weekly. I'll offer reminders but please  put this assignment in your calendar.
